is not true in other countries, he adds. “If you’re able to intervene early, you have an opportunity to manage the problem. It is less likely to affect children socially.” The program will educate parents in low-income immigrant communities about hearing loss and how it may present in children, and will connect children with treatment to reduce adverse outcomes. If a family lacks insurance for their child, the program will help them to enroll in free state services. Leveraging Community Engagement The three-year pilot, supported by a generous gift from the Silverstein family, is projected to reach 1,100 community members with information and screen at least 120 children in its first year. The program will partner with two community-based organizations and four faith-based organizations in Brooklyn. In its second year, it will expand to Mineola, where NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is located. “We have a church that provides worship services to Chinese and Latino immigrants, a mosque serving Arab and Asian Muslims, and a church serving predominantly West Indian immigrants,” says Dr. Mansu. “The Flatbush location has an affiliated academy, which gives us the opportunity to test school screenings.” During the program’s first year, each location is required to hold at least one educational workshop and two screening events, and to promote the program on-site. Marie T. Homsi, MD , a clinical assistant professor of pediatric otolaryngology, helped to lead the educational effort, developing presentations for public awareness and volunteer education, as well as multilingual materials for the program’s diverse audiences. NYU Langone physicians will train community volunteers in hearing loss screening techniques and ways to refer children for follow-up care. The team will track screenings and referrals and will measure awareness among parents. Advocating for Nationwide Change Dr. Roland, who has implemented a similar hearing loss screening program in Uganda, recently led a training for the program’s volunteers. He is a strong advocate for federal legislation that would make hearing screening more accessible for all families. “Every child should be able to maximize their potential,” he says. Health Equity, Community Engagement Moses Mansu, DrPH, oversees the daily operations of community engagement initiatives in the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. He is the former director of faith-based initiatives at the New York City Department of Health. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma While endovascular embolization using nonadhesive agents is an established method to treat many neurologic disorders, middle meningeal artery (MMA) embolization is a relatively new concept for treating chronic subdural hematomas (SDHs). ongoing clinical trial , NYU Langone Health neurosurgical researchers Eytan Raz, MD, PhD , are examining the safety and efficacy of MMA embolization using SQUID, a potentially best-in-class, low-viscosity liquid particle embolic agent for the management of chronic SDH. “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice.” “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice,” Dr. Nossek says. “MMA embolization is a very promising strategy that could potentially revolutionize our ability to care for patients with chronic SDH.” Collaboration between NYU Langone’s Departments of is making it possible to study the transformative therapy. “In our field, multidisciplinary collaboration is essential,” Dr. Nossek says. “We cannot function without each other.” Evaluating Treatment Outcomes Based on promising early results, the researchers are optimistic about the potential for MMA embolization to advance the standard of care and improve the quality of life of patients with this debilitating condition. If the trial results are favorable, it could prompt the FDA to approve the embolic system for this indication. Unlike patients who receive traditional burr hole drainage, those treated with SQUID could have a reduced likelihood of recurrence and complications. MMA embolization also offers immediate benefits, including a procedural duration of under an hour from start to finish. “SQUID may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and visibility.” “SQUID is a promising nonadhesive, liquid embolic agent that may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and poor visibility—especially during longer procedures,” Dr. Raz says. In the trial, patients will receive either MMA embolization with SQUID or standard management without embolization. The primary outcome is treatment failure, defined as residual or re-accumulation of the SDH, re-operation or surgical rescue, or any new, major disabling stroke after enrollment, as well as myocardial infarction or death from any neurologic cause, within six months of the intervention. “We expect this trial to also provide tremendous insight into the natural history of the disease, which has not been well characterized,” Dr. Nossek adds. Ensuring Long-Term Safety The team anticipates the study will yield new insights into the long-term safety of MMA embolization for chronic SDH, explains Dr. Raz, noting that while most prior studies have followed patients for a few weeks post-embolization, the current trial is following patients for six months. Albeit rare, potential risks of MMA embolization include access artery occlusion and spontaneous dural arteriovenous fistulas. In the study, the team aims to better characterize the risk of these complications as current data are limited. Ideal Candidates According to Dr. Raz, embolization of the MMA with SQUID may be particularly useful for patients with comorbidities that require permanent anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, especially given that embolization is typically less invasive than open surgery. “Many patients presenting with chronic SDH are on anticoagulation therapy,” Dr. Raz says. “While surgical evacuation of a chronic SDH requires interruption of anticoagulation therapy, embolization of the MMA using SQUID can be carried out without stopping anticoagulation therapy—this may be a potential safety feature.” The researchers eagerly await the forthcoming results, which they expect by mid to late 2024. Erez Nossek, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and director of the Cranial Bypass Program. His clinical and research interests include cranial bypass surgery, brain aneurysms, and stroke. Neurointerventional Radiology, Neuroradiology Eytan Raz, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology. His clinical and research interests include embolization, stroke, MRI, and endovascular procedures. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Timely pre-transplant testing for GERD holds revolutionary potential for improving outcomes. Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists National leader in computer-aided polyp detection discusses applications ahead for AI in endoscopy. Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease A mechanism has been discovered that leaves gut cells vulnerable in genetically susceptible individuals. Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Computer-aided polyp detection systems boost detection of small and large adenomas. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users David M. Landsberger, PhD Although cochlear implants (CIs) can be remarkably effective in enabling deaf people to understand spoken language, most users find it difficult to enjoy music through these devices. To improve CI performance in this area, it will be necessary to learn how different elements of sound quality influence patients’ experience of music—a topic that remains poorly understood. an auditory scientist at NYU Langone Health, is one of the few researchers systematically investigating this question. He and his team have developed a unique approach: studying patients with single-sided deafness (SSD). Here, he discusses his findings and their implications for the future of CI therapy. Recognizing the Importance of Music to CI Users Dr. Landsberger, what first got you interested in the issue of music perception among CI users? Dr. Landsberger: When I was first introduced to the CI as a PhD student, I learned that although CIs can provide an impressive ability to understand spoken language, the experience of music with a cochlear implant is awful. “I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another.” I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another, so I recognized a need to fix this problem. That requires a deeper understanding of the basic components in our enjoyment of music. Fortunately, the CI allows for a deep exploration of these components, which cannot be manipulated for a typical hearing listener. Emerging Patient Population Prompts a New Approach What led you to focus on CI users with SSD for this research? This population has emerged only since 2008, when researchers in Belgium reported that CIs could help control tinnitus in patients with SSD. It turned out that CIs also improved understanding of speech, a finding that led to growing numbers of people with SSD receiving implants. At a conference a few years ago, I met a singer with SSD who insisted on using her CI when she performed. She said it made the music sound better and gave her greater confidence on stage. Other CI users with SSD told me the same thing. That seemed paradoxical. On the one hand, people who’ve lost hearing in one ear often report a diminished experience of music. Paul Simon, who has developed SSD, recently told a reporter that when he hears himself perform, he thinks he sounds like “a Paul Simon cover band.” Yet elements like pitch, harmony, and timbre are greatly distorted with a CI. Users who are deaf in both ears describe music as sounding sour, thin, and out of tune. All of which made me wonder: Do CIs really improve music perception in people with SSD? And if so, why? How did you look for answers? In 2013, we launched a series of studies in collaboration with the Belgian team—whose audiologist, Dr. Katrien Vermeire, later became my wife—aimed at understanding this phenomenon. As subjects, we chose CI users with SSD who had musical training, figuring that they could articulate their perceptions and perform tasks involving tone recognition more precisely than untrained participants. We began by investigating pitch perception through the subjects’ implants and their healthy ears, and how it was influenced by frequency, place of stimulation amplitude modulation . We also examined pleasantness ratings for harmonic intervals with acoustic and electric hearing, trying to get a sense of what types of sounds were enjoyable or unpleasant for these patients. But the turning point came when we examined the experience of music for these patients in a more holistic way. Recent Findings Could Have Broader Implications Tell us about that breakthrough. In that study, published in 2020 in Ear and Hearing , we worked with Dr. Mario Svirsky and his group here at NYU Langone, as well as with our Belgian colleagues. We tested subjects’ responses to song segments under several conditions, using a scale of 0 to 200. “Patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an ‘auditory ruler.’” First, we played each segment through their healthy ear, and instructed them to rate their enjoyment at 100. Next, we played a version that had been heavily distorted by a noise-band vocoder—again using their healthy ear—and asked them to rate it at 0. We then played the undistorted segments through the subjects’ implants alone, and then through their implants and their healthy ears together. The results confirmed what the singer had reported. Music presented through the CI alone was very unpleasant, with an average rating of 17. But music presented through the CI and the healthy ear together was rated more enjoyable than acoustic processing alone, with an average score of 123. Since then, we’ve been working to identify factors that contribute to that difference. One technique we’ve developed is to have participants vocally imitate what they hear when we play a note or an interval, trying to capture not only pitch but things like timbre and sound quality. Does this work have implications for CI users who are deaf in both ears, as well? Absolutely. When you ask most patients who are deaf in both ears what music sounds like through the device, it’s hard to get a useful answer. You don’t know what their frame of reference is. Typically, they’ve experienced degraded auditory systems for a long time. Do they remember what music is supposed to sound like? Did they ever know in the first place? We hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users.” But patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an “auditory ruler,” allowing us to measure things in a more objective way. By studying this population, we hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users. Cochlear Implants, Deafness David M. Landsberger, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research centers on developing new sound processing strategies to provide improved sound quality, speech in noise understanding, and information transfer to cochlear implant users. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Dr. Leigh Charvet, director of the trailblazing program, discusses the method’s benefits and expanding applications. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts join other world leaders in Denver for the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses By building the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date, researchers help elucidate patient risk. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss Serial MRI and audiometric data reveal trends in untreated vestibular schwannomas. The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg . 2021 Aug 20;1-8. For every cubic centimeter increase in tumor size, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg New research in the Journal of Neurosurgery shows how tumor volume and growth rate affect hearing in patients with vestibular schwannomas, bringing clarity to a contentious topic. While more than 90 percent of patients with these noncancerous growths present with some hearing loss, many choose not to intervene due to concerns over further impairment. However, even if an acoustic tumor does not grow larger, risks to Class A and serviceable hearing remain. “Hearing loss can occur with small or large tumors,” says , co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” A team at NYU Langone Health including Dr. Golfinos, , analyzed serial imaging and audiometric data from 128 patients with untreated, unilateral vestibular schwannomas. MRI allowed the researchers to calculate total tumor volumes, as opposed to relying on more traditional single-axis diameter measurements. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. The same was true for those with faster-growing tumors. For every cubic centimeter increase, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). Risk appeared to increase linearly without any evident threshold growth rate resulting in a significant jump. As a next step, the team plans to analyze how other factors, such as cochlear injury, nerve compression, tumor location, or neurodegeneration, might impact hearing loss in vestibular schwannomas. “The NYU Skull Base Surgery team has tremendous patient volumes.  This data as well as previous work related to patient treatment outcomes helps us inform recommendations that assist patients with acoustic neuroma management decisions,” Dr. Roland says. John G. Golfinos, MD, is Joseph Ransohoff Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of otolaryngology–head and neck surgery, chair of the Department of Neurosurgery, and co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the molecular biology of brain tumors and clinical progression in neurofibromatosis. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks Study of patients in the Post-COVID Care Program seeks genetic and immunological clues and therapeutic strategies. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Research seeks to find optimal interventions for these difficult-to-treat conditions. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine Inclusion, education and communication, and improving healthcare access will be among the national group’s priorities. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health experts joined colleagues from around the world at the 2024 American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ Annual Scientific Meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is “What Matters,” which comes at a time “when all of us need to reconsider our appropriate roles and responsibilities in the broader fabric of modern civilization,” according to the organizers. Friday, May 3 MIS Tubular Decompression +/– Percutateous Fixation + SBRT Minimally Invasive Spinal Surgery: Comprehensive and Practical Review of Contemporary Approaches and Techniques (PC1103) Ilya Laufer, MD 1:58–2:07PM Saturday, May 4 Spine Discussion Surgical Videos from the Masters: How I Do It 2:26–2:31PM Utility of the Integral Dose for Predicting Radiosurgery Response in Patients with Trigeminal Neuralgia Pain Rapid Fire Abstract Ying Meng NYU Langone Co-Authors: Kenneth Bernstein, MS; Benjamin Cooper, MD ; Jason Gurewitz, MD; ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA; Joshua S. Silverman, MD, PhD 4:24–4:26PM Lunsford and Leksell Radiosurgery Award: Vestibular Schwannoma International Study of Active Surveillance Versus Stereotactic Radiosurgery: The VISAS Study Extra-Axial Tumor Surgery: The Intersection of Surgical and Non-Surgical Treatment ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Zane Schnurman, MD 4:41–4:45PM AANS/CNS Joint Section on Tumors Neuro-Oncology Trainee Award: Revisiting the Evans Index: Radiographic Predictors of Hydrocephalus Risk After Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Vestibular Schwannoma Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Ying Meng; Lauren Rotman, MD; 4:51–4:55PM What Matters: Neurosurgeons and Society Plenary IV 11:07–11:20AM CD97 (ADGRE5) – A Targetable Vulnerability in Glioblastoma Tumor Rapid Fire Abstract Hayley Donaldson, MS Shohei Koide, PhD ; Karenna J. Groff, BS, MEng; Takamitsu Hattori, PhD Christopher Y. Park, MD, PhD ; Niklas Ravn-Boess, PhD; Shuai Wang, MD, PhD 1:43–1:45PM Preliminary Results from the eShunt System Pilot Study in Idiopathic Normal-Pressure Hydrocephalus Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Abstract NYU Langone Co-Author: 4:12–4:16PM Monday, May 6 Past, Present, and Future of AI in Neurosurgery The Past, Present, and Future of Clinical Data Science (NC4402) 7:11–7:36AM Raman Spectroscopy and AI for Brain Tumor Diagnosis Comprehensive Brain Tumor Care in the Era of Targeted Therapies and Novel Imaging Techniques (NC4403) 8:31–8:50AM Role of Organized Neurosurgery in Training Future Technical Leaders (Panel Discussion) 11:35AM–12:00PM Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Global collaboration fosters learning for pediatric spinal cord injury rehabilitation and beyond. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine The incoming president of the AAPM&R discusses his vision for the future of the specialty. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Researchers examine the potential lingering effects of blast-induced neurotrauma on active service members and veterans. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation A sensor-based, machine learning platform aims to improve the rigor and effectiveness of rehabilitation therapy. Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy When a patient with cerebral palsy (CP) comes through the doors at the , medical director Mara Karamitopoulos, MD , focuses her attention on one thing: offering every option—from hip reconstruction to targeted rehabilitation—to help every child hit individual care goals. “Two patients might appear clinically identical on X-rays and exams but have very different functional goals. Care absolutely has to be driven by each family,” she says. Given that there is no single, specific treatment target, effective management of patients with CP requires close coordination of specialties—an approach to care that the Center for Children was built to provide. The center is one of only a select few offering truly comprehensive, multidisciplinary care for CP, placing special emphasis on ensuring that social determinants don’t hurt access to high-quality care. “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity. We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We work to connect them with both the best possible care in the clinic and resources in the community.” Targeting Treatment Toward Functional Outcomes From referral—often directly from NYU Langone’s —through transition to early adulthood, the program aligns orthopedic surgeons like Dr. Karamitopoulos with neurologists, pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, therapists from , and other specialists to meet the evolving needs of each patient. Though the nature of CP limits the possibility of measuring outcomes with specific indicators, the comprehensive care approach results in higher patient satisfaction because it enables children to participate more fully in their daily lives. Goals communicated by patients and families encompass everything from a child seeking greater agility to kick a soccer ball, to caregivers needing an easier time working with children’s tight muscles to get them dressed. “Unfortunately, we can’t take away the underlying condition,” explains Dr. Karamitopoulos. “Instead, we ask how we can make life easier for each impacted child and family, to help that child meet their potential.” Data-Driven Surgical Expertise Surgical decision-making is at the center of the care plan. Though hip dislocation is common in patients with CP, hip reconstruction was not commonly recommended until recently. Dr. Karamitopoulos and her team apply a treatment algorithm to recommend reconstruction only when a patient’s hip is more than 50 percent displaced from the socket. “The thinking used to be that it’s better to leave the hips dislocated until the patient has pain,” Dr. Karamitopoulos explains. “We have the resources here to safely intervene sooner and hopefully mitigate the tightness and pain driven by the dislocation for certain patients.” Highly specialized care is also available for patients with severe spasticity, who may benefit from neurosurgery or treatment with the muscle relaxant baclofen, administered through the spine at a specialized clinic within the center. Overcoming Social Barriers with Coordinated Care In addition to supporting patients’ functional outcomes, the coordinated care model makes accessing care as convenient as possible for both patients and caregivers. With appointments streamlined, patients can see most specialists and therapists at the center within a single day, minimizing the burden that accessing care can place on work status and family needs. The center also assigns each family a social worker, who not only supports their social and emotional needs but also helps them manage the realities of life with CP—from housing, transportation, and social activities to navigating accessibility within the New York City Public Schools. Part of Dr. Karamitopoulos’s research has focused on social determinants impacting access to high-quality CP care, particularly among non-English-speaking populations, finding that pairing families with supports can minimize care disparities. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Providing every patient who has CP with equal access to the best possible care, as early as possible, is a mission Dr. Karamitopoulos and her center colleagues are dedicated to achieving. To address known disparities in time to diagnosis due to social determinants, she is working with physical therapists at Rusk Rehabilitation to implement universal CP screening for all premature infants in the NICU. Using a screening tool with infants as young as 6 weeks of age, Dr. Karamitopoulos says the team can predict with 85 to 90 percent sensitivity which babies will ultimately develop CP. “The sooner we can diagnose patients, the more we can use therapeutic interventions to take advantage of early brain neuroplasticity,” says Dr. Karamitopoulos. “With early diagnosis, parents better understand what to expect, and patients have a better chance of meeting their true potential.” Mara Karamitopoulos, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery, chief of the Division of Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, medical director of the Center for Children, and associate director of the Orthopedic Surgery Residency. Her research interests include pediatric orthopedic surgery, access to care, and social determinants of health. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED Despite nearly 1.4 million emergency department (ED) visits annually among patients with Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias, many of their clinical and social needs remain unmet, resulting in return visits to the ED. In a new five-year, $54.9 million study funded by a U19 award from the NIH, faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health will examine how to improve emergency and post-discharge care for those living with dementia and their care partners. NYU Langone was chosen as one of the lead sites for the study—dubbed ED-LEAD, or Emergency Departments Leading the Transformation of Alzheimer’s and Dementia Care—and will be responsible for coordinating and implementing the research activities of 82 participating sites nationwide. “Even with advances in geriatric emergency care, the ED is a suboptimal setting for this population, who often require care for multiple chronic conditions,” says Dr. Chodosh will co-lead the project with three other principal investigators, , of NYU Langone, and national colleagues Corita R. Grudzen, MD, at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, and Manish N. Shah, MD, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. Addressing Unmet Needs According to Dr. Chodosh, the symptoms of dementia place older adults at increased risk of requiring hospital and acute care services, often resulting in costly and under-reimbursed care. To reduce the overreliance on emergency care, researchers seek to test three different strategies to provide best care for persons living with dementia and their family care partners. Dr. Chodosh and his colleagues believe that many of these acute care visits could be avoided, maintaining that care could be provided in better-resourced settings. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” “We lack data on long-term clinical outcomes of patients with dementia who seek care in the ED,” he says. “These patients incur higher costs, are admitted to hospitals more often, return to EDs more frequently, and have higher mortality after an ED visit compared to those without dementia.” Examining Three Distinct Interventions For the study, interdisciplinary teams from all participating sites will evaluate different combinations of three interventions focused on care partners: Emergency Care Redesign (ECR), Nurse-Led Telephonic Care (NLTC), and Community Paramedic-Led Transitions Intervention (CPTI). With respect to outcomes, the effectiveness of these interventions on ED revisits, hospitalizations, and healthy days at home will be evaluated at specific time intervals—14 days, 30 days, and 6 months—post-discharge. Across the clinical sites, Dr. Chodosh will be implementing the ECR intervention, designed to optimize the workflow of emergency providers with digital alerts and structured collaborations with external partners. This intervention is specifically designed for those with dementia who live on their own in the community. “Our aim with this intervention is to redesign workflows from when patients first present to their discharge back into the community,” he explains. The NTLC intervention, directed by Dr. Brody, will provide psychosocial support and connect patients and their care partners to community support and services. The CPTI, led by Dr. Shah, will provide a coaching intervention delivered by community paramedics to empower patients and care partners to manage their healthcare with confidence. All three programs hope to reduce future ED visits and hospitalizations while improving transitional care, quality of care, and care satisfaction, Dr. Chodosh says. Laying the Groundwork for Change Given the size and scope of the project, the investigators believe that it provides a prime opportunity to establish best practices and optimize workflows for geriatric emergency and post-emergency care at a national level. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population.” Additionally, these interventions could be used to reduce costs for health systems. “We hope that one or a combination of these interventions will reduce unnecessary ED visits and hospitalizations for this population,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Health systems may then better allocate scarce resources to where they can be best used.” Reducing the Burden of Cancer Surgery Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH , a respected surgeon and expert in treating hepatobiliary and gastrointestinal cancers, was recently named chief of the Division of Surgical Oncology . Specializing in complex robotic procedures, he will serve as director of the hospital’s Robotic Surgical Oncology Program. Alongside his clinical expertise, Dr. Deutsch brings a passion for education and research to his leadership role in the division, which is part of . He was the founding program director of a surgical oncology fellowship program at his previous institution, having also served as program director for a general surgery residency, and has spearheaded innovative studies using smartwatches for surgical self-assessment. In this discussion, Dr. Deutsch reflects on his career transition and outlines his leadership goals, emphasizing that his primary driving force is to reduce the burden of surgery on patients. Drawn to the Benefits of Robotics Dr. Deutsch, can you tell us more about your surgical expertise and how you came to specialize in minimally invasive procedures? Dr. Deutsch: I’m board-certified in complex general surgical oncology, but I’ve developed a particular interest and expertise in robotic and minimally invasive approaches, especially for complex hepatobiliary and pancreatic cancers, and gastrointestinal malignancies. Early in my career, I became focused on finding ways to reduce the toll that cancer surgery can take on patients. Rather than just aiming to remove the tumor, I started exploring—alongside others in the field—how we could do these procedures in a less invasive way, using robotic technology. I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision. The difference in patient outcomes and recovery times between open and minimally invasive approaches is truly remarkable. “I loved pushing the envelope, using robotics for surgeries that were traditionally done with a large open incision.” Ultimately, I advanced to performing the most intricate surgeries, becoming a specialist in complex robotic surgeries, like the Whipple procedure for pancreatic cancer. Returning Home What drew you to this new role at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island? I actually have a long history with this hospital. Growing up in East Meadow on Long Island, I volunteered here during my teenage years, back when it was Winthrop Hospital, before merging with NYU Langone. I’ve always held the hospital in high regard; it’s a special place with a long-standing history, an esteemed reputation within the local community, and a dedicated patient base spanning generations. Throughout my career, I kept an eye on the great things happening at NYU Langone, so when the opportunity became available to lead the Division of Surgical Oncology here, it seemed like the perfect fit—I jumped at it. With NYU Langone’s academic backing, research resources, and Comprehensive Cancer Center designation from the NCI—combined with its commitment to high-quality care and innovation—I saw an incredible opportunity to further elevate the level of cancer care on Long Island. It’s a chance to build on the strong foundation laid by my outstanding predecessors, Dr. Megan D. Winner Dr. John D. Allendorf , and pursue my passion for innovative, minimally invasive surgical approaches and reducing the burden of treatment for cancer patients. “One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program. It has the potential to further reduce the burden of surgery.” One initiative I’m eager to expand is the Home Hospital Program . The program allows carefully selected patients to recover in the comfort of their own homes, with close monitoring and support from the hospital. To my knowledge, no other hospital in New York offers this. I believe select patients who have undergone minimally invasive cancer surgery would greatly benefit from this approach. It has the potential to significantly enhance the patient experience and further reduce the burden of surgery. Priorities as Chief What are your priorities as the new division chief? A big focus for me will be expansion of education and research. I’m passionate about training the next generation of surgical oncologists, and I’m eager to build on my experience directing surgical training programs at my previous institution—those experiences helped shape my view of what modern surgical education looks like. I see a lot of opportunities to attract top talent to the field of surgical oncology and support them through their training. On the research front, I plan to be very active by involving Long Islanders in the ongoing trials at NYU Langone and by opening new national trials at our site. I have had great success with clinical trials in the past. Although surgical oncologists usually find their place in the operating room, I believe there is significant value in having a surgical oncologist actively involved in the advancement of science. Filling the Self-Assessment Gap You’re also leading pioneering research using Apple Watches to objectively measure surgical performance. Can you tell us more about this? I realized early in my career that mastering safe robotic surgery requires extensive experience, mentorship, and objective feedback. At that time, there were no effective tools for assessing surgical performance. Typically, the success of a surgery was judged by the patient’s outcome. While this is important, I felt it was necessary to have a more nuanced evaluation method. To address this gap, I secured funding to conduct a novel study using Apple Watches to measure wrist movements during robotic surgery. By analyzing this data, we aimed to identify potential improvements and provide actionable feedback to surgeons. This pilot study has yielded promising preliminary data, which will be presented at the American College of Surgeons Clinical Congress in October. I am very excited about these findings and hope to continue similar research here. Surgeons need to have robust self-assessment tools, much like other professions, so we can continue to improve the surgical quality we provide. Although leaders at a national level, including the American College of Surgeons, are exploring this area, there is still no standardized, efficient, and affordable method to provide surgeons with concrete feedback on their performance. Bonding with Patients Is there anything else you’d like to share about your approach to patient care and the values you bring to your practice? One of the things I’m most proud of is the deep connections I’m able to form with my patients. Patients with cancer are often experiencing one of the most vulnerable points in their lives. They’re not only looking for someone who has the skill set to help them get better, but they’re also looking for someone they can trust and form a bond with. “I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do.” I’ve been told by patients that I treat them like family—I will never forget receiving that feedback, because it’s exactly what I strive to do. I believe that patients who feel that level of support will fare better in their tough battle with cancer. That human connection is something I’ll continue to prioritize as I take on this new leadership role. Gary B. Deutsch, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and chief of the surgical oncology division at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in minimally invasive cancer surgery. Making Clinical Excellence Your North Star Jonathan M. Gerber, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Jonathan M. Gerber, MD , has recently joined NYU Langone Health’s as chief clinical officer, where he will oversee the cancer service line across the entire network of locations throughout Brooklyn, Long Island, Manhattan, and Queens. As a seasoned clinician, Dr. Gerber has nearly two decades of experience in treating leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as extensive experience in blood and marrow transplant and cell therapies. He is also an accomplished translational researcher, focusing on the detection and targeting of leukemia stem cells. Dr. Gerber brings a wealth of experience in cancer leadership to the role, having previously served as director of the UMass Cancer Center and in leadership roles at the Atrium Health Levine Cancer Institute Here, Dr. Gerber shares his journey into leadership—including a sudden pivot to the COVID-19 response—and his vision for enhancing cutting-edge, personalized cancer care at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Lessons in Leadership What motivated you to pursue a leadership position in healthcare? Dr. Gerber: I happened into leadership roles a bit by circumstance. When I was still relatively junior in my career, an opportunity came up to help build the Levine Cancer Institute from the ground up in Charlotte, North Carolina. They had a bold vision of building a cancer center without walls and bringing cancer care closer to home. It was a rare opportunity that, for some, might have been intimidating due to the uncertainty, but for me it was an exciting challenge. I realized as a young physician that I didn’t want to be in the position of complaining about things without trying to fix them. We did everything from establishing the positions and hiring faculty and staff to drafting protocols and pathways and even designing future construction and renovations. We launched a leukemia program and a blood and marrow transplant program covering inpatient and outpatient services—truly building from scratch. It was a unique and invaluable learning experience that I really enjoyed. How did your experience in Charlotte shape your approach to leadership? I was trained as a physician–scientist, spending most of my time in the lab while on faculty at Johns Hopkins. So when I took the role at Levine Cancer Institute, I tried to apply the same rigor and due diligence to administrative problems as I would to a scientific experiment or patient care. Rather than dismissing issues, I made an effort to understand the context and find the best solutions by thinking creatively, being resourceful, engaging key stakeholders, and building consensus. “I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress.” Many people mistake leadership for simply having the authority to hire and fire or issue orders, but it’s really about solving problems and taking care of people. Hiring is fun, and it’s one of the most important things we do. It’s critical that we get that right and that we retain good people. Firing is an absolute last resort. Good leaders are often the hardest-working people in the organization. They’re receptive, responsive, and available to their team. They learn about the problems, and if a solution doesn’t work, they reassess and revise the plan. At the end of the day, it’s all about our patients and taking care of each other. I always say that the diseases that we take care of are stressful enough, we don’t need any manufactured stress. A Pivot During the Pandemic During the COVID-19 pandemic, you helped develop convalescent plasma therapies—an area related to but outside your usual expertise. Can you tell us more about this experience? It was really a perfect storm of circumstances that led me to get involved in the COVID-19 response. When the pandemic hit, I had just recently taken on oversight of the Transfusion Medicine Division at UMass, merging it into the Hematology and Oncology Division; and I was therefore asked to mobilize an effort around convalescent plasma treatments. This put me in a somewhat difficult position, because the Transfusion Medicine Division was small, with only two faculty, who were excellent but had little clinical research experience. And the extent of my experience with transfusion medicine was a one-month rotation as a fellow. I drew on my background in leukemia and infectious complications, as well as my experience in building programs and with clinical trials, to quickly pull together the necessary resources and research expertise. I had a phenomenal team supporting me, including an experienced blood bank team. And through my role in the cancer center, I was also able to rely on the cancer clinical trials team. This was an absolutely outstanding group of research nurses, coordinators, and regulatory personnel who worked tirelessly alongside me, often around the clock and 7 days a week, including holidays. I did not take a single day off for 14 months, which I could never have survived without their help. It was an incredibly stressful time, but I was able to translate my skills into a different arena and employ a collaborative approach to tackle a new challenge. It was certainly a detour that I never anticipated in my career. Priorities as a Chief Clinical Officer As the new chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center, what are your top priorities? Clinical excellence is my North Star. The vision for the center is to be the absolute best in every area of cancer care. That means recruiting and retaining top talent; delivering cutting-edge, personalized, and compassionate care; implementing quality safeguards; performing innovative research to advance the standard of care; and driving continuous improvement. We also need to ensure consistency across our growing network of locations. We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible. “We want patients to experience the same quality of care wherever they land in our system, and we want that care to be as close to home as possible.” Toward that goal, we’re working to standardize treatment pathways while still allowing for personalized approaches. We don’t want to make it so proscriptive that providers feel restricted in their practice, but we do want to provide some support and remove unnecessary variation. Leveraging our multiple locations throughout the region will help to eliminate disparities in care and barriers to access, including the availability of clinical trials. You also aim to position the cancer center as a leader in translational research. Can you elaborate on your plans? Fostering tight collaboration between our scientists and clinicians to advance translational research will be a key priority for me in this role. I want to create an environment where we are seamlessly moving discoveries from the bench to the bedside, and then using insights gleaned from patient care to inform new research directions. This bidirectional flow of knowledge is critical for driving innovation in cancer treatment, and it’s one of the things we need to do better at in medicine as a whole. Precision medicine is also a priority. We need to collect biospecimens and data across our network, feed that into our research programs to identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets, and develop new therapies. Increasingly, we will need to incorporate artificial intelligence into these efforts. While this is easier said than done, it will be crucial for improving cancer outcomes going forward. Another part of this involves establishing collaborations across departments and divisions within NYU Langone and with outside partners to explore how therapies introduced in cancer can be applied to other diseases. For example, the same CAR T cell therapies used to treat B cell lymphomas and other cancers have shown early promise in treating debilitating autoimmune diseases such as lupus. These therapies require the infrastructure and expertise that we have in blood and marrow transplantation to deliver them safely and effectively. So we’ve partnered with other specialties to bring these treatments to patients with autoimmune diseases. NYU Langone is at the forefront of this pioneering approach, and I plan to remain closely involved with these and similar efforts to expand the applications of CAR T cells and related treatments to more diseases. Jonathan M. Gerber, MD, is the chief clinical officer at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research and clinical interests include leukemia and related hematologic conditions, as well as blood and marrow transplant. Building an Automated Registry of Spine Surgery Clinical registries offer crucial benefits to the surgical sciences. Because there are fewer randomized controlled trials in surgery, registries are critical to supporting research, device monitoring, and trial development. Currently, they are costly to create and challenging to maintain, requiring the skilled labor of physicians or nurses to enter data manually into registries. In a study published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used neurosurgeons’ operative notes to inform an accurate and interpretable natural language processing (NLP) algorithm that could generate an automated registry of spine surgery. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text, and in doing so this method has the potential to reduce the time and cost that make scaling up manual registries challenging. This creates the potential to facilitate more clinical research opportunities and better monitor care. “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists. Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” “Previously surgeons had to manually enter registry data, or rely upon programming methods set up by computer scientists,” says , senior author on the study. “Now, surgeons can set up the computational model instead of manually doing the work themselves.” Human in the Loop This model is considered a human-in-the-loop approach, where a computational or artificial intelligence (AI) model greatly benefits from human interaction. According to Dr. Oermann, surgeons actively participating in training the model were asked questions like “How do you talk about surgery?” and “How do you write about surgery?” They then used a pattern-matching method within NLP to design classifiers that could order or categorize this information on a surgeon-by-surgeon basis. Researchers began with the NYU Langone “data lake,” which combines unstructured data from the electronic health record (EHR), billing department, imaging systems, and other sources of information. They ran a structured language query to collect 31,502 notes—including spine, cranial, and peripheral cases—for analysis. This data was processed using regular expressions (regex) classifiers, 650 lines of code, written in collaboration with operating surgeons and trainees. In this study, the relative simplicity of the regex method provided transparency in interpreting results as compared with more sophisticated AI models. AI models are often described as black boxes. It can be difficult to understand how they arrive at their decisions, making them challenging to deploy in healthcare settings. The generated autoregistry of operative notes that were run through the regex classifiers included 14 labeled spine procedures. NLP classifiers had an average accuracy of 98.86 percent at identifying both spinal procedures and relevant vertebral levels. They also correctly identified the entire list of defined surgical procedures in 89 percent of patients. Researchers were able to identify patients who required additional operations within 30 days, monitoring outcomes and quality metrics. Because of the specificity used in surgeons’ language, this study cannot be generalized to other hospitals. However, the study demonstrates the method could be replicated in other settings to generate additional autoregistries. This would require neurosurgery domain expertise and practical NLP programming skills. With relatively simple computing requirements, and cost-effective use of surgeons’ time, this method improves upon existing manual methods. Future directions for research include collecting additional spine outcomes data and comparing the regex classifiers against other machine learning models. Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Eric K. Oermann, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. He specializes in tumors of the brain and spine and is an expert in applying artificial intelligence to advance clinical care. Collaborative clinical care and careful evaluation help resolve the underdiagnosed and often debilitating neuropathic syndrome. Collaborative Evaluation Helps Diagnose and Relieve Pudendal Neuralgia A woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone Health for an evaluation of stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain that had persisted since her second vaginal delivery four years prior. Although that delivery was uncomplicated, it required an episiotomy and the woman began experiencing constant irritation and burning in her vaginal opening and sometimes in her rectum. “Pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it.” Through a careful and thorough evaluation, urologist , and pain specialist Meera K. Kirpekar, MD , developed high suspicion of a neuropathic condition called pudendal neuralgia. “I think pudendal neuralgia falls through the cracks because patients are not knowledgeable about it and most healthcare providers have never heard of it,” Dr. Rosenblum says. The pudendal nerve originates at the base of the spine and descends through the gluteal muscles until it reaches the pelvic floor, where it splits into three major branches. Damage to the nerve can cause overactive bladder syndrome and mimic a host of other conditions. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia.” One telling clue was a burning sensation in the patient’s vaginal introitus that intensified when she sat for long periods or sat on a hard surface. Pain that worsens with sitting but lessens with standing is consistent with compression of the pudendal nerve along its pathway across the ischial tuberosity. Dr. Kirpekar performed a pudendal nerve block, which can be both therapeutic and diagnostic. “If you block the pudendal nerve and there is at least 50 percent pain relief lasting the duration of the local anesthetic, you have diagnosed pudendal neuralgia,” she says. After the 10-minute, X-ray-guided injection, the patient achieved full pain relief. “She was thrilled,” Dr. Kirpekar says. By four months, some slight pain had returned, but it was not interfering with the woman’s daily activities, and the physicians are continuing to monitor her progress. Pain Management, Anesthesiology Meera K. Kirpekar, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of anesthesiology, perioperative care, and pain medicine. She specializes in caring for patients with pelvic, neck, low-back, peripheral joint, or nerve pain. Urology, Female Pelvic Medicine, and Reconstructive Surgery Nirit Rosenblum, MD, is a clinical professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology, and co-director of the Female Pelvic Medicine Fellowship Program. She specializes in clinical care for women with pelvic floor disorders and urinary incontinence. New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez and Ghanaian healthcare providers in the maternal–fetal medicine unit. Source: NYU Langone Health Rates of maternal and infant mortality in Ghana and other parts of West Africa rank among the highest in the world. Over the past two decades, Ghana has made significant progress in reducing these rates, yet the numbers remain high. Maternal deaths stand at approximately 319 per 100,000 live births , around twice the global average . Neonatal mortality in Ghana is around 23 per 1,000 live births , around seven times higher than in the United States and Europe. Policymakers and healthcare providers strive to continue lowering these rates, especially in northern Ghana, where improvements in maternal and infant health outcomes have lagged compared to other parts of the country. In support of these efforts, specialists from NYU Langone Health, working through the global health initiative AMPATH , have established a maternal-fetal medicine (MFM) unit at the sole tertiary referral hospital in northern Ghana. The unit is dedicated to monitoring high-risk pregnancies, an effort known to improve perinatal outcomes. “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies.” Sasha Hernandez, MD “Every day, we scan an average of 25 women at the MFM unit, many of whom have high-risk pregnancies,” says , a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at NYU Langone. “We also get referrals from nearby or district hospitals for more complicated cases.” Dr. Hernandez is currently serving as the lead obstetrician–gynecologist for AMPATH’s initiative in Ghana, and has made Tamale, Ghana, her full-time home since 2022. Replicating a Proven Model AMPATH, short for Academic Model Providing Access to Healthcare, is a consortium that builds partnerships between universities and academic medical centers around the world. Its mission is to strengthen health systems and tackle health disparities in low- and middle-income countries. About 30 years ago, the first AMPATH partnership launched in western Kenya , with the success of the model driving the consortium’s expansion into Mexico Nepal , along with the ongoing partnership in Ghana Dr. Sasha Hernandez with a patient and her newborn who received care at the MFM unit. The patient had experienced multiple neonatal losses in the past and was being monitored for growth restriction. Following intensive fetal monitoring and a closely supervised preterm delivery, she left the MFM unit with a healthy baby “At the core of the AMPATH model is the belief that long-term, sustainable global health partnerships are the key to improving health across the globe,” says Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH Section for Global Health , and an associate professor in the Dr. Vedanthan has been involved with AMPATH Kenya for nearly two decades. “AMPATH Kenya was one of the first programs in Africa to start a comprehensive HIV clinical care program,” he says. Care infrastructure was then extended to address cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes, child and adolescent health, and more. Thousands of local medical students and trainees received specialized training in the process. “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers,” says Dr. Vedanthan. “I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” “These trainees will be able to impact the populations that they subsequently work with during their careers. I think that’s a very special thing that’s embedded within this academic relationship.” When AMPATH leadership set out to replicate the model in other countries, Dr. Vedanthan was asked to lead the organization and launch of AMPATH Ghana. “I jumped at the opportunity,” he says. Managing High-Risk Pregnancies AMPATH Ghana partnership connects NYU Langone with Ghana’s University for Development Studies and Tamale Teaching Hospital. Strengthening reproductive healthcare and launching the MFM unit were among the initial priorities. Activities began in fall 2022, involving comprehensive training for local healthcare providers in ultrasound techniques and specialized care, alongside the development of tailored protocols for managing high-risk pregnancies. By fall 2023, these efforts led to the official inauguration of the MFM unit. This phased approach not only streamlined the implementation process but also facilitated the development of trust and effective problem-solving, says Dr. Hernandez, fostering widespread support for the MFM unit from both healthcare professionals and patients in northern Ghana. Another boon of the MFM unit: it serves as a training ground for local residents seeking to acquire proficiency in obstetric and gynecological ultrasound. Since its inception, the unit has trained 20 physicians from the region, six of whom attained advanced ultrasound training, as well as five midwives. A medical officer and an OB/GYN resident perform an ultrasound scan in the MFM unit. Source: NYU Langone Health. With the MFM unit now operational, the focus has expanded to assessing how ultrasound screenings are impacting outcomes for both mothers and babies related to high-risk pregnancies, particularly those with hypertensive disorders of pregnancy. “The number one cause of maternal morbidity and mortality in Ghana is hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, which includes pre-eclampsia and eclampsia,” says Dr. Hernandez. “Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy also increase the risk of stillbirth, fetal growth restriction, and neonatal death.” Dr. Hernandez is drawing insights from the outcomes tracking to validate the effectiveness of the MFM unit and pinpoint areas for improvement. Recently, the MFM unit secured a grant from the Consortium of Universities for Global Health to evaluate clinical outcomes and patient satisfaction associated with the new innovative care model over a two-year period. Foundation of Trust With a focus on building relationships grounded in mutual trust, respect, and benefit, NYU Langone has stationed additional faculty members, alongside Dr. Hernandez, at Tamale Teaching Hospital. These experts are leading projects in medicine, pediatrics, mental health, and population health. “These NYU Langone specialists are identifying priorities based on their day-to-day experiences and their discussions with their Ghanaian colleagues, and then translating these priorities into programs and initiatives,” says Dr. Vedanthan. The established foundation of trust and relationship-building now facilitates short-term visits by other NYU Langone faculty and trainees as well. “It’s a partnership, not a project,” Dr. Hernandez says. “Building trust takes time and can be hard. But once you have that trust, what you can create together is really meaningful and impactful—and beautiful.” Obstetrics and Gynecology, Global Health Sasha Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology and population health. She serves as the Obstetrics and Gynecology Lead for AMPATH Ghana. Her research interests include global health, capacity building, increasing access to equitable reproductive health, and implementation research. Cardiology, Global Health Rajesh Vedanthan, MD, MPH, is an associate professor of medicine and population health. His research interests include global health, cardiovascular disease, climate change and health, transdisciplinary implementation research, and capacity building. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations Endocrine educator Dr. Melissa Sum is rethinking the toolkit for specialty training. Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk Ongoing trials probe the relationship between cholesterol-lowering and vascular disease in diabetes. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery An expert discusses bariatric surgery, a well-tolerated and effective treatment option for adolescent obesity. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions An expert discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia, rare conditions that can inform treatments for more prevalent lipid disorders. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Osteochondral lesions of the talus often result in early-onset osteoarthritis in the ankle joint if left untreated. Due to the avascular nature of articular cartilage, which limits its healing capacity, these ankle injuries are typically managed through surgical intervention. However, surgical treatments alone often lead to the formation of fibrocartilage, which is less tribologically and mechanically robust compared to the native hyaline cartilage of the joint. Consequently, biologic adjuvants are increasingly being explored for their potential to enhance cartilage healing and promote a hyaline-like quality. In 2017, at the inaugural International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle, it was agreed that certain biologic adjuvants could be considered as part of a conservative management strategy for treating these ankle lesions. “Medicine is constantly evolving and improving. We still have to do quality basic science and clinical studies to show that these biologics are effective,” says NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon John G. Kennedy, MD . “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’re still going to operate. It’s just that now we’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” “Once efficacy is confirmed, biologics will help in sports injuries and in arthroscopy. We’ll have new tools to promote regeneration and repair.” To help surgeons sort through the expanding roster of adjuvants for ankle cartilage injuries, Dr. Kennedy and a collaborator highlighted some of the most promising options Journal of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons NYU Langone’s Foot and Ankle Center has long used platelet-rich plasma (PRP), an autologous product that is not only a potent anti-inflammatory but also a downregulator of metalloproteinases. Through that activity, PRP can help control joint homeostasis and stop cartilage destruction. Dr. Kennedy’s team has shown that a single in-office PRP injection is as effective as serial injections for giving patients with small chondral defects some symptomatic relief. He cautions, however, that the adjuvant doesn’t contain stem cells, contrary to some claims, and is more chondroprotective than chondrogenic. “It doesn’t produce a new joint or new cartilage,” he says, “but in small areas you can certainly affect your fibrocartilage infill, which may be helpful in the short term or medium term.” Concentrated Bone Marrow Aspirate Concentrated bone marrow aspirate (CBMA), another widely used biologic, is typically extracted from a patient’s pelvic bone in an operating room, centrifuged, and then injected into the ankle joint. Unlike PRP, Dr. Kennedy says, CBMA contains a small quantity of stem cells. In the context of the joint, researchers believe that injected stem cells can be engulfed by macrophages or monocytes, which then become activated and contribute to a biological milieu known as the secretome. In the right environment, the secretome can have chondrogenic, chondroprotective, immune modulatory, and antibacterial effects. “We’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect.” “There are multiple downstream effects of a secretome within a joint, which is a much greater effect than we previously thought about these stem cells,” Dr. Kennedy says. “That’s a very exciting area of work here at NYU Langone: we’ve been pushing the envelope to better characterize what’s truly in the secretome and whether we can predict the clinical effect from patient to patient based on the spectrum of what they have in their bone marrow.” Micronized Adipose Tissue Based on research suggesting that fat cells can be chondrogenic, NYU Langone’s orthopedic surgeons have also been assessing micronized adipose tissue as a potential solution for post-traumatic osteoarthritis in the ankle joint. In the first study of its kind in the United States, Dr. Kennedy and colleagues showed that injected fat cells are safe and potentially beneficial in patients with post-traumatic osteoarthritis of the ankle. The micronized adipose tissue, he suspects, contains additional factors that may add to the effect. The team is investigating different formulations to increase the strategy’s effectiveness, and has seen promising results in patients with knee osteoarthritis as well. “We’re not growing new joints. We’re simply protecting that joint, removing the cause of the symptoms, and prolonging the life of the joint for as long as we can,” Dr. Kennedy says. Hyaluronic Acid and Other Injectables Another biologic, hyaluronic acid, acts like a chondroprotective adjunct with some added anti-inflammatory and chondrogenic properties when injected into the knee joint. “We use it as an adjunct to many cases involving an osteochondral lesion or long-term post-traumatic osteoarthritis, and the results of that are very encouraging,” Dr. Kennedy says. In addition, the medical center’s orthopedic researchers are collaborating on investigations of other injectable agents, like a lubricin mimetic. “Lubricin is the true WD-40 of the joint,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage is massively exciting for the future.” Ongoing clinical trials are assessing the effectiveness of a recombinant protein that mimics lubricin’s properties. “I think that’s going to be the next great breakthrough in terms of prolonging the life of many of these arthritic joints,” he says. As an acknowledged leader in the field, NYU Langone will host the 2025 International Consensus Meeting on Cartilage Repair of the Ankle to review the latest progress and clinical results from around the world. “I think we’re really at the tip of the spear in many of these chondrogenic and chondroprotective biologics,” Dr. Kennedy says. “The whole aspect of regeneration coupled with the preservation of existing cartilage, to me, is massively exciting for the future.” John G. Kennedy, MD, FRCS, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Foot and Ankle Surgery. As director of the Foot and Ankle Center at NYU Langone Health, he specializes in sports injuries including cartilage injuries, Achilles tendon injuries, ankle instability, and ligament reconstruction. Latest in Orthopedics After a successful osseointegration and recovery, the patient is able to walk unassisted with the new titanium connector attached to his prosthetic leg. Osseointegration Enhances Post-Amputation Connection with Prosthesis In August 2022, a 46-year-old truck driver presented to NYU Langone Health’s multidisciplinary after his left leg had been crushed between a truck and loading dock and he had undergone a left transfemoral amputation. The man, active in sports prior to his injury, suffered from debilitating nerve pain and phantom limb syndrome and struggled with the fit and use of his traditional prosthetic. Orthopedic surgeons and center co-directors Omri Ayalon, MD Jacques Hacquebord, MD , performed a new two-stage osseointegration surgical procedure to implant a permanent titanium prosthetic connector in the man’s left femur to enhance the fit between his thigh and prosthetic leg. “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Compared to traditional socket prostheses, osseoanchored prostheses allow for increased range of motion, limb strength, proprioception, and osseoperception. In addition, the permanent implant increases comfort and eliminates skin irritations, ulcers, and perspiration; allows for weight gain and loss; and simplifies prosthetic attachments. “Osseointegration is basically fixing the prosthesis itself to the patient’s skeleton,” says Dr. Ayalon. “There’s no pressure on the skin or the soft tissue at all, so that gets rid of all of the soft tissue concerns of a traditional socket prosthesis.” In the first surgery, he and Dr. Hacquebord performed targeted muscle reinnervation and implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system. During a follow-up surgery in November 2022, the surgeons attached an abutment to the implant. The complex soft tissue surgery closed the gap between bone and metal, allowing the thigh to heal down to the distal femur and titanium connectors. By January 2023, the patient reported significant improvement in his pain, phantom limb symptoms, mood, and mobility, and he was successfully fitted with a full prosthetic in May 2023. The patient’s strength continued to increase with time and physical therapy until he was able to walk unassisted. “The patient is ecstatic. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” “He’s ecstatic,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “He’s driving, he’s walking, he was just outside shoveling snow. He’s back to living life and participating in activities that he couldn’t do before.” Based on the success, Dr. Ayalon adds, “This unique and comprehensive solution is a paradigm shift in the treatments we are able to offer individuals with limb loss.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hand and Wrist Surgery Omri B. Ayalon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction, and associate director of the Hand Surgery Fellowship Program. He specializes in orthopedic surgery and hand and wrist surgery. Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery and co-director of the Center for Amputation Reconstruction. He specializes in treating patients with severe hand injuries through reconstructive surgery and microsurgery. Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Surveys suggest that up to 70 percent of physicians 82 percent of nurses who work in the nation’s emergency departments (EDs) report symptoms of burnout—a condition associated with increased risk for medical errors, cardiovascular disease, and cognitive decline. Yet little is known about the risk factors for burnout or how it develops over time. Researchers at NYU Langone Health are working to increase that understanding, using “digital phenotyping” to identify markers predictive of burnout symptoms. In an NIH-funded prospective longitudinal study led by , the team will follow a cohort of 350 ED clinicians, using advanced computational methods to extract such markers from video and audio data. “A problem for the study of burnout is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills. My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities.” “A problem for the study of burnout, as with many other neuropsychiatric disorders, is that screening relies on subjective self-reports and the clinician’s interpretive skills,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains. “My research focuses on finding objective diagnostic and prognostic modalities to identify stress-related mental health issues and enable timely interventions.” A Digital Phenotype for Burnout In the three-year trial, currently in its enrollment phase, investigators will conduct semistructured interviews about work experience, using a subset of artificial intelligence known as machine learning to analyze participants’ voice patterns, speech content, head movement, pupil dilation, gaze, facial expressions, and other digital biomarkers extracted from video and audio data. This digital phenotyping will then be used to predict evidence of chronic stress determined by neurocognitive tests, psychometric assessments, and physiological biomarkers—such as elevated blood pressure, inflammatory proteins in blood samples, and high cortisol concentrations in hair samples. As digital biomarkers emerge, they will be tested for accuracy in distinguishing between risk for clinically relevant versus nonrelevant burnout symptoms. The team will also assess the association of those biomarkers with the long-term job-related stress load of individual clinicians, such as levels of ED crowding and patient acuity, adequacy of staffing, and regularity of shift schedules. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” “By identifying objective, accurate, and reliable digital measures for burnout, we hope to promote low-threshold prevention strategies,” Dr. Schultebraucks says. “The mental and physical wellbeing of ED clinicians is crucial not only to those who work day in and day out to save the lives of others, but is also essential to a well-functioning emergency care system.” Digital Tools for Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder and Suicidality In addition to burnout, Dr. Schultebraucks and her research group are working to develop easily deployable digital tools for risk stratification, diagnosis, and treatment selection in other stress-related pathologies. Their approach embraces not just digital phenotyping but also clinical predictive analytics and computational medicine. Toward this effort, the team is currently conducting two other large studies. The first, funded by the NIH , focuses on patients admitted to an ED after a potentially traumatic event. This study’s overall objective is to develop and test a risk-prediction model of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) based on electronic medical records (EMRs) and digital biomarkers. Previous work by the team, showed that routinely collected data from EMRs, together with a brief psychometric screening, predicted nonremitting PTSD symptoms in patients after trauma. The researchers propose to use such digital biomarkers to substitute for psychometric self-reports in developing a prognostic model of short-term and chronic PTSD risk. The second study is part of a multicenter investigation, funded by the Swiss National Science Foundation , with multiple principal investigators. Its aim is to predict suicidal ideation and behavior in psychiatric patients who were admitted to an inpatient unit after exhibiting such symptoms and who are about to be discharged. Dr. Schultebraucks and an interdisciplinary team that includes psychiatrists, psychologists, and linguists have developed an app that draws on daily psychometric assessments, video diaries, and other data to forecast the risk of relapse. “We want to learn not only whether digital biomarkers can predict suicidal ideation,” Dr. Schultebraucks explains, “but also how sensitive they are in monitoring changes in symptomology over time.” Answers to such questions are crucial, she notes, before these kinds of tools can be deployed in real-world settings. “Our goal is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention, and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Eventually, Dr. Schultebraucks hopes digital tools can help guide preventive and therapeutic strategies for populations ranging from firefighters to combat troops “Our overall goal,” she says, “is to identify at-risk individuals who could benefit from earlier intervention and to develop scalable approaches to treatment that can improve outcomes and reduce health disparities in vulnerable populations.” Katharina Schultebraucks, PhD, is an associate professor of psychiatry and population health and co-director of the Computational Psychiatry Program. Her research centers on precision psychiatry, with a focus on applying advanced computational methods to improve individualized risk stratification and individualized treatment allocation. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics Dr. Kenneth A. Egol speaking at the screening of On the Shoulders of Giants at the Tribeca Film Festival. Source: NYU Langone Health. For clinicians seeking to advance their specialty, a grasp of its history is essential. One way to deepen that understanding is by examining the development of a single institution—an approach taken by the documentary On the Shoulders of Giants , which traces the heritage of NYU Langone Health’s Department of Orthopedics to the discipline’s most illustrious ancestors. The hour-long film grew out of a project by orthopedic surgeon Kenneth A. Egol, MD , a self-described history buff who led residents and students in cataloging biographies of the department’s clinical pioneers. “At NYU Langone, we often say we’re standing on the shoulders of giants,” says Dr. Egol, who serves as vice chair for academic affairs for orthopedic surgery and chief of orthopedic trauma. “But our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” “Our research convinced us that this was a story others needed to know.” To tell that story, he and , chair of orthopedic surgery, turned to award-winning documentarian Peter Sanders , who had been under their care for several years—most recently for a midfoot fracture. “I look back on that as ‘the break that led to a bigger break,’” Sanders says. “I might never have become involved with this project if I wasn’t seeing these doctors as a patient.” The film was an official selection of the 2024 Tribeca X Award competition, a celebration of the year’s best brand-supported storytelling. It is now available to stream on multiple platforms. The Formative Years The saga begins at Bellevue Hospital in 1853, when Lewis Albert Sayre, MD , started his practice. Then, in 1861, he became the first professor of orthopedic surgery in the United States. Among Dr. Sayre’s outstanding students were brothers Henry and Herman Frauenthal , who in 1905 founded the Jewish Hospital for Deformities and Joint Diseases. By 1921, that entity had grown from a single brownstone in upper Manhattan to a multibuilding complex known as the Hospital for Joint Diseases (HJD) —one of the foremost patient care centers in the United States. From the beginning, the hospital was home to many of the field’s seminal figures: Emanuel Kaplan, MD , gained renown as a founder of the discipline of hand surgery. Henry L. Jaffe, MD , joined the faculty in 1924 and has been credited as the father of orthopedic pathology for his systematic classification of bone and cartilage tumors. Leo Mayer, MD , one of the original chiefs of service, was a leader in polio care in the 1920s and 30s. Harry Finkelstein, MD , developer of the Finkelstein test, was another original chief of service. Surgeon Michael Burman, MD , became a pioneer of diagnostic arthroscopy in the 1930s. In 1935, Marian Frauenthal Sloane, MD , Herman Frauenthal’s daughter, became the first female orthopedic surgeon in the United States to publish an article in a peer-reviewed journal. Henry Milch, MD , devised the Milch classification system for lateral condyle fractures in the 1950s Howard Rosen, MD , brought the principles of internal fixation, originally developed in Switzerland, to the United States. Paul Lapidus, MD , established America’s first orthopedic foot service and invented the Lapidus procedure for treating hallux valgus—it’s still in use today. Victor H. Frankel, MD , established the nation’s first biomechanics laboratory at HJD, and subsequently introduced the Ilizarov limb-lengthening technique to the United States. Melvin H. Jahss, MD , a student of Dr. Lapidus, published the classic textbook on disorders of the foot and ankles and went on to found the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society Jacques Serge Parisien, MD , forged new paths in arthroscopic surgery and sports medicine. All these innovators appear in On the Shoulders of Giants, whether in archival photographs, vintage video footage, or interviews conducted for the film. Continuing the Legacy The oldest connection between NYU Langone and HJD runs through Bellevue Hospital, where faculty members have taught and practiced since the 19th century. The link became even closer in the 1990s, when HJD affiliated with NYU Langone. In 2006, the two institutions completed a full asset merger, with the HJD becoming the NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases—now named “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics, either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” As the documentary shows, the legacy of Lewis Albert Sayre lives on in NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Department of Orthopedic Surgery , which operates NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital and provides services at numerous sites throughout the metropolitan area. The film introduces over three dozen current faculty members, orthopedic trainees, and administrators. Their demographics are more diverse than those of earlier generations, but their mission remains much the same. In one scene, Dr. Zuckerman illustrates that continuity through a diagram of a tree, whose roots represent Sayre and the Frauenthals, and whose trunk stands for as it exists today. “Emanating from that into the branches,” he explains, “is the clinical care we provide and the scientific discovery and innovation that we perform, and the education of residents and fellows.” The department’s residency program, Dr. Zuckerman adds, is the largest of its kind in the country. This, along with the robust fellowship programs, offers a comprehensive and immersive educational experience provided by NYU Langone orthopedics. As a result, “there are hundreds of NYU Langone orthopedic graduates providing patient care across the country,” says Dr. Zuckerman. “There are thousands and thousands of patients who are benefiting from NYU Langone orthopedics either directly or indirectly. For us, that is the most meaningful aspect of what we do.” Kenneth A. Egol, MD, is the Joseph E. Milgram Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, vice chair of academic affairs in orthopedic surgery, and chief of the Division of Trauma and Fracture Surgery. His research and clinical interests center on patient outcomes following musculoskeletal trauma. Hip & Knee Reconstruction, Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, is the Walter A. L. Thompson Professor of Orthopedic Surgery and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research interests include outcomes of shoulder surgery, arthritis and shoulder replacement, hip and knee arthroplasty, geriatric hip fractures, and improving methods of orthopedics residency education. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The relationship between Alzheimer’s disease risk and age-related sleep changes—and how barriers to sleep health possibly drive Alzheimer’s disease–related disparities—is the focus of ongoing research led by Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH , an associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health and member of the Brain Aging and Sleep Center Dr. Bubu’s investigations offer a window into potential opportunities to target sleep disorders such as obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) before the onset of Alzheimer’s disease, potentially narrowing the disproportionate risk of Alzheimer’s disease in minority populations. “If we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients.” “We now know that around 15 percent of Alzheimer’s disease cases can be attributed to specific sleep problems,” says Dr. Bubu. “Clinically, that tells us that if we can eliminate sleep problems before major cognitive decline, we may be able to significantly reduce the Alzheimer’s disease risk burden—particularly among Black patients, who are twice as likely to experience sleep problems.” Sleep Apnea as a Risk Factor retrospective analysis led by Dr. Bubu found a dose–response relationship in incident Alzheimer’s disease risk as OSA increased, driven specifically by underlying factors involved in OSA: hypoxia, sleep fragmentation, and sleep duration. He notes, though, that the precise causal relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease onset remains under investigation. While the study indicated that patients with OSA were significantly more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to those without OSA, the risk was notably more pronounced in Black and Hispanic patients. Specifically, White patients with OSA were 1.7 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. In contrast, Black individuals with OSA were 2.2 times more likely and Hispanic patients with OSA were 1.8 times more likely to develop Alzheimer’s disease compared to their counterparts without OSA. Early intervention could potentially head off the development of the progressive disease. Suggesting opportunities for such intervention, from Dr. Bubu and colleagues has demonstrated a greater presence of Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers in cognitively healthy older patients with OSA, including amyloid burden and tau protein aggregation . Concurrent vascular risk factors, including hypertension, were found to further promote amyloid burden and global cognitive decline. Research into Disparities and Interventions Now, with over $8.5 million in funding from the National Institute on Aging, Dr. Bubu is applying a health disparities research framework to further investigate the effects of race on the relationship between OSA and Alzheimer’s disease pathology. The five-year study will involve 300 race-, age-, and sex-matched participants—half with newly diagnosed OSA. Data on social determinants of health from the study could support prospective investigations of novel prevention strategies for Alzheimer’s disease that target stress management, inflammation, hypertension, and sleep quality. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Dr. Bubu’s ongoing research has also found that plasma strongly mirrors brain scans in revealing the presence of certain Alzheimer’s disease biomarkers. These biomarkers, including tau, point to a future role for blood-based screening, which could provide a simple tool to assess Alzheimer’s disease risk. In the meantime, his findings to date suggest an immediate clinical benefit to prioritizing sleep in the evaluation and management of patients—particularly Black patients. “The effects of social determinants on sleep—and the connection between sleep problems and neurodegeneration—are a critical piece of the whole health outcomes puzzle,” said Dr. Bubu. “By prioritizing sleep in patient education and promoting adherence to effective treatments for sleep problems, physicians may be able to help their patients effectively slow the onset and progression of cognitive decline.” Psychiatry, Neurology Omonigho M. Bubu, MD, PhD, MPH, an associate professor of psychiatry, neurology, and population health, is director of the Aging Research in Sleep Equity and Dementia Prevention Program. His research explores the association between sleep disorders and dementia, and the social determinants of Alzheimer’s disease and related dementias. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement Ran Schwarzkopf, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health In a retrospective study of more than 20,000 patients undergoing total knee or hip arthroplasty, NYU Langone Health researchers reported the first validated decision-making tool that predicts discharge to home versus inpatient rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility. Within bundled payment models for total joint arthroplasty, costs are higher for discharge to rehabilitation or a skilled nursing facility, but that level of care is often necessary for better patient recovery. “Sometimes, our patients are not physically or mentally ready to go home alone and take care of themselves,” says orthopedic surgeon and senior study author Ran Schwarzkopf, MD . “They need some environment to care for them until they’re able to do that.” Dr. Schwarzkopf led a group of colleagues from across the nation in developing an online prediction model consisting of nine preoperative parameters to identify high-risk patients (Figure 1). The focus on parameters easily pulled from the electronic medical record enables discharge planning to occur well in advance of surgery. Figure 1. The nine preoperative variables used in a new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities following total hip or knee replacement. ASA; American Society of Anesthesiologists. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. Compared to simple random selection, the clinical decision-making tool yielded a 79 percent improvement in positive predictive value and a 56 percent decrease in the number needed to screen to identify 1 true positive (Figure 2). Figure 2. The new tool performed better at predicting discharge destination compared to random selection, or the absence of a tool. Adapted From: Ortiz D 3rd, et al. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2022;104(17):1579-1585. The study also indicated that 15.5 percent of the patients qualified for rehabilitation, which Dr. Schwarzkopf notes is to be expected for a tertiary referral center that often sees patients with comorbidities. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers.” The tool, he says, merits consideration for clinical use because of its value for patient counseling, preoperative optimization, and discharge planning. “Not only does it help a patient meet expectations and prepare, it also helps the family or caregivers,” he says. “In addition, it helps the system prepare better for where to do the surgery and what to expect for the patient after the surgery.” Orthopedic Surgery, Hip & Knee Reconstruction Ran Schwarzkopf, MD, is a professor of orthopedic surgery, associate chief of the Division of Adult Reconstruction Surgery, director of the Adult Reconstruction Research Center, and associate director of the NYU Langone Orthopedic Residency Program. He specializes in hip and knee conditions, with a particular interest in degenerative joint disease. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Jacques H. Hacquebord, MD (left) and Omri B. Ayalon, MD (right). Source: NYU Langone Health For an open fracture or neurovascular injury to an extremity that requires definitive soft tissue coverage through a flap, orthopedic researchers have agreed that it’s best to perform a free flap reconstruction as soon as possible. In reality, however, scheduling and other conflicts can delay the time to coverage. Some surgeons have maintained that improved technology has lessened the urgency. Others have pointed to the potential existence of a temporary “inflammatory period” during which reconstruction should be avoided. Within this time frame, it’s proposed that irritated blood vessels may heighten the risk of thrombosis and surgical failure. systematic review and meta-analysis led by orthopedic surgeon , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health support the general consensus that immediate reconstruction within three days is most effective. Beyond that window, however, the study has suggested a relatively nonlinear relationship between time and outcomes. “Get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important.” “The most objective advice I can give other surgeons is get to free flap reconstruction as early as possible: the evidence is very strong that less than three days is important,” says Dr. Hacquebord, co-director of the multidisciplinary A Matter of Time Over 1,400 free flap reconstructions from 21 qualifying studies were included in the analyses. “One big takeaway is that the relationship between time and outcomes is nuanced,” Dr. Hacquebord says. “It’s not just the longer you wait, the worse the outcome.” Reconstructions performed between three and seven days after injuries showed significantly higher rates of infections, bone nonunions, and reoperations than did reconstructions done outside this window (Figure 1). Figure 1. Percentage rates of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation outcomes are plotted against four date ranges, which correspond to the number of days elapsed after the patient’s injury before surgeons performed the free flap reconstruction. Adapted From: Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. Effect of Timing on Outcomes of Free Flap Reconstruction Following Traumatic Injury to the Exremety: Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. Poster presented the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Feb 2024. Las Vegas, NV. By contrast, no clear trends were observed for rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications (Figure 2). Figure 2. Percentage rates of flap failure, partial flap failure, and other complications. Adapted from: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting. Sanchez-Navarro G, et al. In addition, the study showed no significant differences in reconstructions performed between 7 to 30 days or after 30 days postinjury. Further Research Required Dr. Hacquebord cautions that more investigation is needed to fully understand the implications of these findings for surgical interventions occurring after the three-day window. “What we can say is that the middle window of time is associated with a higher rate of infection, bone nonunion, and reoperation,” he says. More-granular studies of the time to coverage and patient outcomes and complications could clarify whether an “inflammatory period” or other factors are contributing to the difference. For surgeries that cannot occur within that three-day window, he advises optimizing the patients and paying close attention to all intraoperative and postoperative findings as they relate to time. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease The president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology shares insights into new roles for the imaging technique. Obstetrics & Gynecology Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA The glenoid component is a weak link in total shoulder arthroplasty (TSA), and glenoid loosening is a common cause of failure. Computer-assisted navigation (CAN) can help surgeons precisely and accurately implant glenoid components and correct deformities. Although the method has surged in popularity, no studies had evaluated its intraoperative efficacy and safety during shoulder replacement until a retrospective review by NYU Langone Health researchers. Their study assessed 16,723 TSA cases (anatomic and reverse) performed worldwide with CAN, finding the technology to be extremely user-friendly: in 98 percent of cases, surgeons completed every step of the navigation procedure without abandoning it intraoperatively. “Computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve.” Mandeep S. Virk, MD The analysis, Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery , also revealed that CAN is reliable and reproducible, with minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plan. The researchers reported a low complication rate in their series, with only nine fractures (0.05 percent) of the coracoid bone. “The take-home message is that computer-assisted navigation surgery is safe, reliable, and has a high efficacy with a quick learning curve,” says lead author and orthopedic surgeon Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery “It’s a large database study including all TSAs performed with computer navigation up to the time of publication. The comprehensive design, I think, is the real hallmark of this study.” Computer-Captured Measurements Dr. Virk and colleagues have used the CAN system for TSAs since 2018. Prior to each surgery, surgeons plan out the procedure on a computer using the system’s software. The preoperative plan includes determining the size and alignment of the glenoid implant in the coronal (inclination) and axial (version) planes. The plan is then transferred to a computer station, which is used inside the operating room. The navigation procedure involves use of multiple infrared trackers, which are placed on the surgical tools and on the patient’s shoulder; these trackers communicate with the computer station to generate a virtual 2D and 3D model of the patient’s shoulder on the computer screen. The surgeon uses real-time feedback from the computer station while performing surgery to implant the glenoid component with precision and accuracy, as determined preoperatively. Interactive Guidance The study showed minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plans with respect to version, inclination, and starting point on the glenoid face. Because the completion rate and deviation between preoperative and intraoperative execution are captured by the CAN system itself, Dr. Virk points out, the analysis is free of any potential bias from surgeon-reported data. The comprehensive design is the real hallmark of this study.” Additionally, the low rate of fractures of the coracoid bone, where the navigation tracker is attached next to the glenoid, suggests that the procedure is safe. “Having an interactive navigation tool allows me to make sure that what I have planned for a shoulder implant prior to surgery I can do with high accuracy using live feedback from a computer,” Dr. Virk says. “If I am doing shoulder replacement without any kind of feedback and relying purely on anatomic landmarks, that becomes very challenging in complex revision surgeries and in the presence of severe glenoid deformities.” Dr. Virk is a paid consultant for Exactech. Mandeep S. Virk, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. He specializes in computer-navigated shoulder replacements as well as the Latarjet procedure, arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, and labral repairs. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement Joshua C. Rozell, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Inpatient falls after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) can lead to patient injury and delay postoperative recovery. Orthopedic surgeons often use adductor canal blocks (ACBs) during such surgeries to improve pain control, but some experts have raised concerns over whether the blocks might contribute to the loss of proprioception and motor or sensory function and predispose patients to falls. Tourniquets can improve perioperative visibility but have prompted similar concerns: that they could impair quadriceps muscle function and contribute to postoperative inpatient falls. “Using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement.” Joshua C. Rozell, MD of nearly 6,500 patients who underwent an elective TKA and stayed at least one night in the hospital at NYU Langone Health, however, found no association between fall incidence and the use of a tourniquet, an ACB, or both together. Instead, the patient safety study pointed to longer lengths of stay as increasing fall risk, leading to higher all-cause revision rates. “Our validating study showed that using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement,” says study co-author and orthopedic surgeon Low Fall Incidence The study found a low occurrence rate of inpatient falls: 2.7 falls per 1,000 patient-days. Of the 6,472 patients included in the study, 39 sustained falls, most commonly on postoperative days one and two. The patients who fell had significantly longer lengths of stay (3 days versus 2.3 days) and higher revision rates at latest follow-up (10.3 percent versus 2 percent) than their counterparts who didn’t fall. Of the 39 patients who fell, 6 sustained minor injuries and 1 sustained an ankle fracture that did not require further surgery. The research, Dr. Rozell says, highlights the collaborative, multidisciplinary efforts of the arthroplasty program’s surgeons, nurses, anesthesiologists, physical and occupational therapists, and case managers. The important observation that neither tourniquets nor ACBs increased the low fall rates, he adds, suggests that both perioperative TKA interventions can be safely used, based on a surgeon’s comfort level. “If a surgeon feels comfortable performing the surgery with a tourniquet, I don’t think there’s any significant detriment to using one,” he says. “In general, I also think the adductor canal block is a useful adjunct to help with postoperative pain control and limiting the amount of opioids that patients require.” Setting Patient Expectations Teasing out the most significant risk factors may require larger-scale studies, Dr. Rozell cautions. As part of preoperative optimization, however, he emphasizes the importance of screening based on patients’ home environments, medical comorbidities, and other factors that could contribute to a longer length of stay, higher likelihood of revision, and overall fall risk. “Understanding the risk factors for falls preoperatively can help us prepare patients more appropriately for after the surgery,” he says. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues.” A critical part of that preparation, Dr. Rozell adds, is setting expectations about knee pain and function after the TKA surgery. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues,” he says. “I think that preoperative education of the patient, tempering their expectations, and making sure they understand the type and amount of pain they’re going to be in after the surgery is very important.” Hip and Knee Reconstruction Joshua C. Rozell, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of patient-reported outcomes research. He specializes in anterior approach hip replacement, computer-navigated and robotic knee replacements, and outpatient joint replacement surgery. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Remarkable recovery and uncomplicated birth are welcome outcomes following the diagnosis of critical aortic stenosis. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation A heart failure expert details the novel protocol targeting plasma cells and B cell–T cell interactions with existing drugs. Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery Scoring coronary calcium from non-gated chest CTs shown to predict risk of postsurgical cardiac events. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula For a newborn with a rare heart defect, advanced catheterization techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in New Orleans, March 4–6. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated For the past two decades, public health assessments in the United States have raised concerns over sharply increasing rates of maternal mortality. However, doubts have lingered regarding the accuracy of these estimates, and a study recently published in the American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology challenges the prevailing estimates, and presents evidence that this is likely a methodological artifact. According to the National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) of the CDC, maternal mortality rates increased by 144 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 9.7 to 23.6 per 100,000 live births. For most of that period, the NVSS/CDC identified maternal mortality by relying on the pregnancy checkbox introduced in 2003 and that now appears on all US death certificates. “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths.” “What we found was more reassuring,” says at NYU Langone Health and a co-author of the study. “Rates of maternal mortality were essentially stable, though we clearly need to do better—especially in addressing the persistent racial and ethnic disparities.” Pitfalls of the Pregnancy Checkbox The pregnancy checkbox was designed to correct prior undercounting of maternal deaths, though experts have long recognized that it could drive distortions in the opposite direction. Reported maternal mortality rates rose sharply in the years after its introduction in 2003, but subsequent studies by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) showed the increase to be an artifact. Errors of ascertainment and misclassification were common. For example, hundreds of women aged ≥70 years were certified as having been pregnant at the time of death or in the year before. These errors led the CDC to stop reporting the official US maternal mortality rates between 2004 and 2017. In 2018, the NCHS implemented new guidelines restricting use of the checkbox to deaths of pregnant people aged 15 to 44 years. Nonetheless, reported rates continued to soar , nearly doubling between 2018 and 2021. “My colleagues and I were skeptical of those numbers, in part because they didn’t align with data from the CDC’s pregnancy mortality surveillance system or state-based mortality review committees,” says Dr. Brandt. Redefining Cause of Death Suspecting the methodology was unreliable, a multinational research team analyzed the data using a broader approach. Dr. Brandt and colleagues examined a census of all maternal and pregnancy-related deaths from 1999 to 2021. Data were obtained from the NCHS multiple-causes-of-death files which contain information transcribed from death certificates. The files include a single underlying cause of death and up to 20 contributing causes. The team used two formulations to identify maternal deaths: The current NVSS and NCHS methodology, which includes deaths in pregnancy or in the postpartum period, including deaths identified solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox. An alternative, definition-based premise, requiring at least one mention of pregnancy among the immediate, intermediate, or underlying causes of mortality on the death certificate. The latter formulation was intended to identify only the deaths caused by pregnancy or its management, which epidemiologists refer to as maternal deaths. These are defined as deaths that occur while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by pregnancy or its management, but not from accidental or incidental causes. The researchers hypothesized that overreliance on the pregnancy checkbox led to the misclassification of many deaths that occurred during or immediately after pregnancy, but that were caused by factors unrelated to pregnancy. While these cases may have been classified on death certificates as maternal deaths, epidemiologists define these as being pregnancy-associated deaths. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk.” Using the alternative, definition-based premise, the researchers recharacterized deaths identified by the NVSS solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox as pregnancy-associated deaths, not maternal deaths. A Clearer Picture Emerges With this definition-based approach, the team found maternal mortality rates to have increased only 2 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 10.2 to 10.4 per 100,000 live births. The drop in maternal mortality rates based on the new formulation brings the US rates well within the range of other high-income countries “We saw a decline in direct obstetric deaths, defined as maternal deaths resulting from obstetric complications of the pregnant state, or from treatments related to that state,” says Dr. Brandt. “That makes sense because obstetric care has improved in the last 20 years. We are better capable of managing obstetrical hemorrhage, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, thromboembolism, and other areas.” On a more granular level, however, the news was less comforting. Indirect obstetrical deaths—those resulting from previously existing disease or disease that developed during pregnancy and was aggravated by the physiologic effects of pregnancy—rose by 46 percent. Late maternal deaths, from either direct or indirect causes and occurring more than 42 days but less than one year after pregnancy, increased 329 percent. And though maternal mortality rates decreased among pregnant people who were non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic, they remained disproportionately higher for Black people than for other cohorts. Calling for a Course Correction “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths, and a consequent overestimation of maternal mortality,” says Dr. Brandt. “We need a course correction, so that we can direct our attention and our efforts more effectively.” Still, he adds, the study offers no grounds for complacency. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk. Those disparities in death rates are where we should be channeling more support and funding.” Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Patient’s transthoracic echocardiogram revealing an abscess near the aortic root. The Root Cause of a Months-Long Illness A 19-year-old male with a congenitally diagnosed bicuspid aortic valve presented to the pediatric emergency department at with a 5-month history of fatigue, intermittent cough and fever, rashes, weight loss, and migrating joint pain. During the five weeks prior to arriving at NYU Langone and being referred to pediatric cardiologists Tasneem F. Hoque, MD , specialists with , he developed night sweats, and his fevers became daily and continuous. After an initial transthoracic echocardiogram revealed multiple vegetations and blood cultures were positive for Streptococcus mutans , they established a working diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). A follow-up MRA of the brain showed multiple small septic emboli. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE.” “Before coming to us, the patient had previously been seen by a pediatric cardiologist at another institution who did not consider the diagnosis of IE,” Dr. Better says. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE to prevent morbidity and mortality.” Because of concern for potential deterioration and need for cardiothoracic surgical intervention, the patient was transferred to NYU Langone’s and put under the care of cardiothoracic surgeon , and cardiologist “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” Transesophageal echocardiography confirmed vegetations on both the aortic and mitral valves, while further imaging of the abdomen ordered secondary to abdominal pain revealed a splenic abscess. Given extensive involvement of the aortic valve that resulted in both stenosis and severe regurgitation, the decision was made to replace the aortic valve using the patient’s own pulmonary valve, also called the Ross procedure. “We first elected to perform laparoscopic splenectomy to reduce the burden of disease and risk of reinfection before proceeding with the Ross operation,” Dr. Kumar says. “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” “Within a few days of surgery, the patient was back to normal activities. Follow-up echocardiograms revealed a perfectly functioning aortic valve,” Dr. Kumar says. Transthoracic Echocardiogram Reveals Vegetations The patient’s echocardiogram showing mitral valve vegetations. A patient with a bicuspid aortic valve presented with persistent fever, rashes and joint pain. Specialists diagnosed the patient with infective endocarditis after an initial transthoracic echocardiogram showed two small masses on the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve, each about 5 by 12 millimeters in size, and blood cultures came back positive. More Insight from Transesophageal Echocardiography The patient’s echocardiogram showing aortic valve vegetations. Additional echocardiography revealed vegetations on the aortic valve. Treating the Multi-Organ Infection The patient’s echocardiogram demonstrating aortic root abscess. Further imaging revealed an aortic root abscess plus multiple septic brain emboli, a splenic abscess, and renal infarction. The aortic valve was successfully replaced using a pulmonary autograft (Ross) procedure, during which the mitral valve vegetations were removed. The infection to the spleen necessitated its removal and the remaining infections were treated with postoperative antibiotics. Donna J. Better, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and site director of pediatric cardiology at NYU Langone Children’s Ambulatory Care Center—Mineola. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Jose U. Scher, MD , the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine and associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology , is director of NYU Langone Health’s Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity . Established to enhance understanding of autoimmune and immune-mediated disease, the Colton Center translates groundbreaking discoveries into new diagnostic tools and treatments. As the center’s new leader, Dr. Scher brings a wealth of experience in collaborating across research disciplines to uncover new targets for autoimmunity treatment. Here, he shares his vision for the center’s future, and why he believes the next big autoimmune discovery will come from a specialty outside of rheumatology. Shaping the Future of Autoimmune Discovery Dr. Scher, when you consider your priorities as director of the Colton Center, what are the key areas of opportunity you see ahead? Dr. Scher: First, I see an opportunity to build on the collaboration the center is known for and substantially expand interdisciplinary collaboration both within and beyond NYU Langone. I am convinced that we will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers, from epidemiologists, cell biologists, and biostatisticians to rheumatologists and immunologists, of course, but also dermatologists, gastroenterologists, and collaborators in other disciplines. “We will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers.” My second priority for the center is to pursue computational precision medicine–driven approaches in the study of autoimmune disease. While we’ve seen significant improvement in the therapies we can offer patients, we still lack the personalized approach to care that can be unlocked by using digital markers and artificial intelligence in our diagnostic tools and treatments. Collaborating Toward the Next Breakthrough Why is working across disciplines so important to the next phase of autoimmune research? The last significant breakthrough in the treatment of inflammatory autoimmune disease was the application of TNF inhibitors—which were originally developed for the treatment of sepsis—in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriatic arthritis. The idea that these medications could be efficacious in autoimmune disease was suggested by Dr. Jan T. Vilcek , a world-renowned microbiologist here at NYU Langone. While TNF inhibitors remain highly effective, nothing that has come after them has proven to be superior. Discovery has hit a plateau. “Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside.” I’m convinced that the next disruptive solution will emerge through the meeting of multiple minds and disciplines. Rheumatologists are often called “doctors’ doctors” because we must understand and incorporate multiple aspects of biology, medicine, and immunology to solve the enigma of autoimmune disease. I see the Colton Center as a catalytic facilitator to bring the pieces of discovery together and hopefully find that next disruptive breakthrough. Harnessing Technology to Personalize Care What are some of the specific technology-driven approaches you’re interested in applying to the study of autoimmune disease? There’s enormous opportunity to use technology to tie together the clinical, molecular, and digital features of a disease and its progression in order to direct more precise treatment. For example, in arthritis we are currently using functional tools such as step counts to predict progression; how could we incorporate those tools with radiographic assessments or sensor-derived data? In psoriasis, what diagnostic value does the pixelation of a skin image offer? Researchers have begun to apply machine learning algorithms to explore how medications can be tailored to each patient, but it remains siloed. There’s so much to be gained through collaboration. Expediting the Discovery Lifecycle Looking ahead, what do you see as the near-term opportunities for impact? We can help to accelerate discovery by providing an agile, collaborative environment where our researchers can expand and enhance what they’re already working on. The work of Dr. David B. Beck , an inaugural Colton Scholar, is a prime example; his research in discovering and characterizing VEXAS syndrome laid the groundwork for ongoing research at the center into new diagnostic tools and treatment pathways for the condition. We can also help to expedite the movement of novel treatment targets and compounds into later-stage development so they reach patients sooner. For example, a compound our researchers discovered for the treatment of myasthenia gravis is now in early-stage clinical trial. Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside. Jose U. Scher, MD, is the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology, and director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity, the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, and the Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity. Latest in Rheumatology 212-263-7349 Vestibular Testing At NYU Langone’s Hearing and Balance Center, audiologists provide children and adults with a full range of audiologic testing, as well as hearing aid evaluation, fitting, and follow-up care. We also offer adults and children to diagnose inner ear conditions affecting balance. Children with vestibular and balance disorders receive treatment through Our Team-Based Approach Our audiologists collaborate with otolaryngologists—ear, nose, and throat doctors—as well as providers at NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates , neurologists, and pediatric specialists to provide compassionate, team-based care. We diagnose and create personalized treatment plans for the following conditions: otosclerosis, a condition affecting the stapes bone in your middle ear , which is ringing in your ears Eligible children and adults with hearing impairments may choose to be evaluated by providers at NYU Langone’s to determine suitability for a surgically placed cochlear implant or an auditory brainstem implant Care may also involve referrals for speech–language pathology services for , and any necessary educational support for your child. Hearing Tests Our experts perform a variety of hearing assessments , including audiometric hearing tests to evaluate the level of hearing loss in adults and older children. These tests occur in a soundproof booth, while you wear headphones that transmit various sounds to each ear. Your ability to detect these sounds help our doctors to determine which type of hearing loss is causing your symptoms. Specialized Care for Children We provide hearing assessments and treatment plans for children of all ages. If your infant does not pass universal newborn hearing screening, our audiologists provide additional screening and care. We may perform an otoacoustic emissions test to assess how well your baby’s inner ear works. Our audiologist may also use an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test. This test records how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area, to measure the lowest level of sound your baby can hear. We also provide child-friendly audiometric hearing tests. These assessments may include visual reinforcement, conditioned play, or interactive games, which help our audiologists evaluate even the most active kids. Auditory processing evaluations are recommended for children who have normal hearing but difficulty processing sound when there is background noise. This assessment can help diagnose an auditory processing disorder, which makes it harder for the brain to understand speech. We also work with members of the speech and hearing services team at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone to assess children who have speech delays and to rule out whether hearing loss may be the cause. In addition, we create treatment plans for children who have frequent middle ear infections associated with hearing loss. Hearing Aid Evaluation and Fitting If you or your child has , our experienced audiologists can help select the right hearing aid and demonstrate how it works. We specialize in custom fitting hearing aids and provide follow-up care to ensure that they are working properly. During fitting appointments, an audiologist inserts a probe microphone into the ear canal to precisely measure the sound and confirm that you receive the proper amplification level for your specific hearing loss. Our audiologists also provide information about assistive listening devices, which increase the sound of a telephone, television, or computer. If you experience severe hearing loss in one ear, our audiologists can help you choose the proper hearing amplifier. We provide a wide range of single-sided deafness devices. These include the contralateral routing of signals (CROS) system, which uses two hearing aids to transfer sound to your nonfunctional ear. We also offer a selection of bone-conduction hearing devices, which work by transferring sounds directly to your cochlea, a hollow tube in your inner ear. Our team includes experts in audiology, hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo. Erin Byrd AUD Audiologist Jaclyn B. Castoro Emily K. Lancaster Irina Ozersky Marisa Viets 516-663-4600 516-663-3793 Family Travel Medicine Center At the Family Travel Medicine Center at , we provide personalized care and medical recommendations for you and your family based on your specific travel destination. Our goal is to ensure that you receive appropriate immunizations and preventive medications, as well as information you need to help prevent illness and injuries during your trip abroad. Your visit to the Family Travel Medicine Center includes a comprehensive health assessment that takes into consideration your immunization history, current medications, and overall health. Together, we discuss potential risks, such as infectious diseases, safe food and beverages, contact with animals and insects, and high altitudes. We prepare you to handle symptoms that can arise when traveling abroad, and can advise you on who to contact in case of an emergency. We also address any specific health concerns you may have, such as asthma in children , or seasonal and food allergies. Upon your return, we can evaluate children who experienced fever, flu-like symptoms, skin infections, or other post-travel–related illness. We provide treatment for the following conditions: Japanese encephalitis measles mumps parasitic infections tick-borne illness , including chikungunya, dengue fever, malaria, typhoid fever, and yellow fever traveler’s diarrhea varicella, commonly known as chicken pox Zika virus Vaccinations We Provide We provide the following vaccinations: cholera hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and the combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, also known as TWINRIX measles, mumps, and rubella, also known as MMR meningococcal pneumococcal polio rabies tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis, also known as Tdap typhoid yellow fever As an authorized yellow fever vaccination center, we provide an International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis, also known as an ICVP card. Care for Children Our board-certified pediatric infectious disease specialists identify potential health risks and make age-specific recommendations using the most up-to-date guidance on emerging global infections. A child’s immune system is still maturing, which can make them more susceptible to certain diseases. Children also have different behaviors and health risks. Vaccine recommendations and preventive medications for children are usually different than for adults. To schedule an appointment, please call us at at least four weeks before travel to allow time to prepare and receive any needed immunizations. Our pediatric infectious disease specialists provide personalized care and prepare both adults and children to travel safely. Theresa M. Fiorito Asif Noor Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctor We are open Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 4:00PM. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Study finds some biomarkers exceed levels found in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans New research probes factors influencing treatment for those with severe hearing loss. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” Rusk Rehabilitation faculty help shape national standards for inpatient care and treating post-acute sequelae. Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 More than half of severely impaired patients demonstrate improvements in responsiveness before discharge. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong Join us in NYC for a conference and celebration presented by NYU Langone Health. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Cell-level interactions suggests a promising new avenue for research on laryngeal dysfunction and voice disorders. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation patients with stroke who experience significant motor impairment in an upper extremity, rehabilitation seeks to accelerate motor recovery by training functional activities. However, the optimal quantity of functional motions to augment motor recovery has remained unknown without practical tools to measure them during rehabilitation. “The rate limiting step for stroke rehabilitation is counting movements, especially for the arms, which unlike the legs, do not have regular, repetitive kinematics,” says , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Schambra and , at New York University, and their research teams are the developers of PrimSeq, a new deep learning-based digital tool to identify and quantify functional movements during stroke rehabilitation. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them,” says Dr. Schambra. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them.” Design and Development The PrimSeq pipeline was designed to accurately measure motor therapy through the rapid counting of building-block functional movements, called primitives. “Our research so far shows that rehabilitation activities can be accurately decomposed into these elemental movements,” notes Dr. Schambra. “Much like words in a paragraph, primitives are strung together to execute an activity.” The approach integrates three components: wearable sensors to capture upper-body motion, a deep learning model to classify primitives from their motion patterns, and an algorithm to quantify the primitives. To build the approach, the research team collected extensive motion data from stroke patients performing rehabilitation activities, using human experts to divide up the motion into types of primitives. The primitives and their associated patterns of motion data were fed to a deep learning model. Once trained, the approach accurately identifies and tallies these functional movements at a fraction of the time and labor costs of human experts, says Dr. Schambra. A Promising Option for Stroke Patients In a recent publication, the research teams showed that the PrimSeq algorithm precisely counts functional primitives completed by stroke patients and outperformed other benchmark algorithms. Further results demonstrated that patients tolerated the wearable sensors, and also showed that the approach is 366 times faster at counting primitives than humans. Based on these findings, the study concludes that PrimSeq provides a precise and practical way of quantifying arm movements in stroke rehabilitation, offering a promising platform to further advance both research and clinical care. “Our goal is to continue training the algorithm in inpatient rehabilitation settings, then expand to outpatient settings,” says Dr. Schambra. “In research contexts, the generalizability depends in part on the adoption of functional primitives as units of measure.” While the trained model outperforms other best-in-class models, further refinement is needed, and the researchers plan to continue optimization. “The model performs well, with a sensitivity of 77 percent, but we want to continue to improve its accuracy,” says Dr. Schambra. “Long-term, we’d like to package and release this tool as a software, as well as explore its potential in other rehabilitation domains.” In the meantime, the teams have made the data and source code for their algorithm available online to foster collaboration among researchers. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Accessible tools and interventions aid caregivers in supporting children’s healthy development. Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Brain changes in utero confirm trauma-associated developmental risk factors passed from mother to baby. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers New tech helps to assess multiple characteristics of small bronchoscopic biopsies. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney Thirteen-hour OR procedure entails a close partnership of transplant surgeons and specialists. Research Spotlight Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 At one year, patients experienced noteworthy short- and long-term outcomes. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Arts-based interventions benefit those with cognitive decline and their caregivers, suggests mounting research. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules 3D robotic bronchoscopy reduces the need for more invasive procedures. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine Physical medicine and rehabilitation was first recognized as a specialty by the American Board of Medical Specialties in 1947, established through the pioneering work of internal medicine physician Howard A. Rusk, MD . Dr. Rusk also founded NYU Langone Health’s , built with the vision of providing patients with high-quality care and the recovery resources needed to lead full and rewarding lives. Today, , continues to advance Dr. Rusk’s vision as chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. Dr. Flanagan also serves as the incoming president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AAPM&R) . Here, he discusses the further evolution of the specialty. The Essential Role of Physiatry Dr. Flanagan, what sparked your initial interest in rehabilitation medicine? Dr. Flanagan: Growing up, I was interested in the nervous system and psychology, specifically the biology of human behavior. As a medical student, I was deliberating between neurology and psychiatry, but instead chose physiatry, after first encountering it in my third year. In rehabilitation medicine, you’re able to develop longer-term relationships with patients, which is vastly different than many other specialties. In physiatry, we don’t focus on one organ system or age group. We focus on disability, which can arise from injury to any organ system. Our role is essential to promote overall health and function for patients—our goal is for them to live as independently as possible. National Leadership: Increasing Visibility and Specialization You’re the incoming president of the AAPM&R. Can you describe your vision for the role? The benefit of being in this type of leadership position is that you’re afforded the opportunity to advocate for the speciality at a national level. In my view, physiatry is the best-kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore. During my term, I hope to increase awareness of the value physiatrists bring to the table. “Physiatry is the best kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore.” For example, if our goal is to achieve better patient outcomes and experiences, and to become more efficient, which translates to “more cost-effective” for institutions, we need both patients and other specialties to realize the value of physical medicine and rehabilitation. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the specialty? Physiatry is a relatively new specialty. Over the course of time, it has become more diversified, encompassing the entire spectrum of disability. One recent development, for example, is the conception of oncological rehabilitation, defined as the treatment of disabilities related to cancer or cancer treatment. Other subspecialties that have emerged since the specialty was first recognized are musculoskeletal and pain rehabilitation. In the coming years, I expect physiatry will continue to grow, and I’m glad to be part of it. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Legacy of Innovation NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation is one of the most renowned rehabilitation locations in the country, with a storied history. What makes it unique? Rusk Rehabilitation was the first fully integrated, university-based rehabilitation program in the world, and next year marks our 75th anniversary. At Rusk Rehabilitation, our physiatrists focus on a specific area of rehabilitation medicine; some examples include cardiopulmonary, central nervous system, limb loss, pediatric, pain, musculoskeletal, sports medicine, spine, and pelvic floor dysfunction. We have some very specific niches as well, including one of the best vestibular rehabilitation programs in the country. Our limb loss program is also exceptionally strong. But most importantly, we provide complex rehabilitation for complex patients. Recently, we were involved in the care of a patient who received the world’s first —no other institutions are doing cases like these. Rusk Rehabilitation is also a magnet for education and research. We train medical students, residents, therapy students, and psychologists, and our research draws top talent from around the world. Steven R. Flanagan, MD, is chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. He is the president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. His research interests center on rehabilitation strategies for stroke, concussion, and traumatic brain injury. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks In the early months of the COVID-19 pandemic, clinicians anticipated that many patients who were hospitalized or who had more severe disease might experience the lingering symptoms of a chronic pulmonary disease. “What we found is that other patients who had mild or even asymptomatic disease, weeks to months later, were also developing symptoms like shortness of breath, fatigue, dizziness, and brain fog,” says pulmonologist Rany Condos, MD Estimates suggest that roughly 50 percent of patients who’ve had COVID-19 will develop post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection (PASC), or long COVID. “What we are finding in the clinic is that there continues to be an enormous need,” Dr. Condos says. “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” To better understand the genetic and immunoinflammatory drivers and other risk factors for PASC that may point toward therapeutic targets and strategies, Dr. Condos and rheumatologist , are leading a $4.2 million NIH-funded study to characterize the patients in the program. “While the syndrome is occurring in a substantial number of people, we don’t really understand the pathophysiology or the disease mechanisms,” says Dr. Abramson, chair of the . “It’s not a single disease, and it may turn out that there are multiple causal processes.” A Long-Term Assessment of Outcomes The study will enroll more than 1,200 patients divided into three groups: one with long-term pulmonary symptoms, a second with symptoms that do not include pulmonary complaints, and a third group who have had COVID-19 but no long-lasting symptoms. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible.” Beyond characterizing patients’ pulmonary and neurological symptoms and medical history, the study will assess their anxiety, ability to perform daily tasks, and social determinants of health. “We need to make sure that we’re listening to what patients are telling us, taking that to heart, and adjusting as we go along to make sure that we collect as good a set of data as possible,” Dr. Condos says. Collecting the data over two to four years may provide critical information about the effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection in distinct PASC groups. “Since there’s really no specific treatment to speak of the other purpose of the grant is to understand mechanisms, whether broadly speaking or for each of the different PASC subtypes, to identify targeted treatment approaches,” Dr. Abramson says. Searching for Genetic and Immunological Triggers A better understanding of those disease mechanisms may come from determining the inflammatory, immunological, genetic, and autoimmune processes driving the clinical manifestations of PASC. In acutely hospitalized patients with severe COVID-19, the virus somehow activates a cytokine-mediated, host-induced inflammation that can damage multiple organs. Dr. Abramson and colleagues report on the preprint server medRxiv that variants of the IL1RN gene seem to confer protection against severe disease . Among patients with PASC, the investigators hope to determine whether cytokine levels are persistently elevated, whether autoantibody responses have proliferated, and whether continued inflammation is more associated with a pro-inflammatory genotype of A whole genome sequencing analysis of each patient will aid the search for other candidate genes that increase the susceptibility or severity of PASC. “Even though we know there is persistent inflammation in some of these patients, we don’t know why,” Dr. Abramson says. The study may shed new light on whether a virus-induced autoimmune response or the persistence of viral particles in the gut or elsewhere drives the disease in some patients. Sifting Through Potential Risk Factors The researchers will also examine how genetic variants linked to PASC susceptibility and severity may vary across self-identified race and ethnicity. Some genetic polymorphisms, for example, may modulate immune–inflammatory responses that influence the incidence or severity of PASC syndromes in certain patient groups. “We’re trying to be very consistent, organized, and defined in terms of how we’re evaluating these patients because we’re dealing with something that has not been defined until now,” Dr. Condos says. In effect, Dr. Abramson adds, the study is an extension of the integrated clinical program that evaluates and cares for patients through the close coordination of pulmonologists, neurologists, rheumatologists, and specialists at NYU Langone’s , among others. “I think what we are offering people is some assurance that we can at least help diagnose a problem and provide supportive therapy,” he says. “That’s really important to people, otherwise they feel like it’s just in their head.” Steven Abramson, MD, is the Frederick H. King Professor of Internal Medicine and chair of the Department of Medicine. He is the executive vice president and vice dean for education, faculty, and academic affairs, and chief academic officer for NYU Langone Health. He specializes in treating and researching arthritis. Rany Condos, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine, director of the Post-COVID Care Program, and director of the Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program. She specializes in pulmonary conditions. CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine , is a pulmonary and critical care physician with an extensive background in bronchiectasis and nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infection. In January 2023, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris became president of the American College of Chest Physicians (CHEST) . Additionally, in July 2023, NYU Langone Health, a leading center in the study and treatment of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease, will host the 6th World Bronchiectasis and NTM Conference recently spoke with Dr. Addrizzo-Harris about what she hopes to accomplish during her presidency of CHEST and her vision for the future of the subspecialty. An Inclusive Community As president of CHEST, can you share some of your goals and vision for the organization? Dr. Addrizzo-Harris: CHEST is focused on improving clinical care in pulmonary, critical care, and sleep medicine. We are already an organization that is inclusive of a variety of healthcare providers, but we can do more. We want to expand our membership to other providers who help care for our patients, including advanced practice providers, respiratory therapists, and others. We will also focus on increasing collaborations with sister societies to find new ways to reach fellows-in-training, as well as residents and medical students who are interested in pulmonary, critical care, or sleep medicine. The Role of Education and Mentoring How do you view the current state of education and mentoring within CHEST? CHEST does medical education really well, from problem-based training at our conference, to train-the-trainer events, to educational opportunities at headquarters. But the thing we do best is provide opportunities for networking and learning from the experts—not only about the subspecialty, but how to create your most robust career. “The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming.” An expanded offering, particularly in the area of professional and career development, could reach even more fellows and early-career members on both a national and an international level. The goal is to enhance communications between trainees and key thought leaders in a way that is simple, seamless, and welcoming. Addressing Healthcare Disparities As an organization focused on clinical care, what types of patient health initiatives does CHEST engage in? How will you support these efforts? Access to care is a critical issue, especially in pulmonary medicine. Our Health Policy and Advocacy Committee does incredible work with thought leaders in the field to advocate for legislative changes that need to be made at both the national and local levels. I have a strong passion for the work of the CHEST Foundation , which for 25 years has been creating premier patient education tools, tackling health disparities in marginalized communities, awarding community grants, and partnering with physicians to offer better resources to patients. Throughout my presidency I will focus on how CHEST can support and integrate with the foundation’s goal of improving patient care, whether through supporting clinical research grants, expanding patient education and advocacy events, or funding programs like First 5 Minutes , designed to strengthen the rapport and trust between clinician and patient by building cultural competency and an understanding of barriers to care. Meeting Challenges Head-On What are some challenges facing CHEST, and how will you address these challenges? COVID-19 has shown us that we must be better prepared for global health emergencies. Early in the pandemic, CHEST established a large task force to address post-COVID care issues, and we will continue to evolve this effort as the pandemic evolves or other emergencies arise. All specialties, including pulmonology and critical care, have lost specialists post-COVID. For instance, rural access to specialist care is decreasing. How does telehealth feed into that? And how do we attract more medical students and trainees to pulmonary medicine? Within critical care, we did see some people leave, but now we’re seeing an increase in applications for fellowships. A challenge for all associations, CHEST included, will be redefining what associations look like now that virtual and hybrid learning has become a part of what we do on a day-to-day basis. How can we best utilize a hybrid or virtual collaboration and live events? Any closing thoughts? CHEST has many strengths, but I think our greatest is the strength of our team—our members, our faculty, our volunteer leaders, and our staff. To build on this, my presidency will include a strong communications strategy to reach, educate, and share the variety of opportunities with our members. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Military service members are frequently subjected to blast events during training and deployment that result in mild traumatic brain injuries (mTBIs). Evidence suggests these exposures may have long-term consequences for cognitive function. However, little is known about the cognitive sequelae, despite such events having increased in incidence in the past several decades. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil , the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology, is leading research that investigates both the short- and long-term effects of mTBIs caused by blast events and other active-duty incidents on cognitive functioning. This work includes searching for new clinical indicators such as biomarkers that may aid in identifying risks and supporting recovery. “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions.” “Does being in the military and being exposed to concussions from these causes set you up for CTE [chronic traumatic encephalopathy] and dementia at an early age? There are still many unanswered questions,” says Dr. Tsao. Dr. Tsao is the former director of Traumatic Brain Injury Programs for the U.S. Navy Bureau of Medicine and Surgery. His research harnesses his expertise in Alzheimer’s disease and dementia as well as concussion to investigate the range of long-term impacts that may be associated with mTBIs. Variance in Post-Blast Neurological Assessment In 2021, Dr. Tsao and colleagues published a study revealing acute neurocognitive deficits in active-duty service members evaluated following subconcussive blast exposures. The study used data collected with the Automated Neuropsychological Assessment Metrics (ANAM) , a computer-based tool routinely used for cognitive health assessments for service members that evaluates memory, concentration, reaction time, and other neurocognitive domains. Compared to an age-matched normative population, personnel exposed to subconcussive blasts exhibited ANAM scores for reaction time tests outside the range of normal functioning. “The results highlight covert effects of subconcussive blast exposure that may warrant further monitoring in the immediate aftermath of a blast event,” the authors wrote. Longitudinal Effects of Mild Concussion While recent studies show the number of current military service members who develop CTE is small , Dr. Tsao is working with Navy researchers to explore any long-term effects of mTBI on active-duty members who served in the 1980s and 1990s. “Most of the military concussions in the 1980s were sports, motor vehicle, and training injuries,” Dr. Tsao says. “In the next two decades, we started to see more personnel exposed to blasts in combat.” The research utilizes two cohorts: a military personnel database from the Naval Health Research Center in San Diego and a national Veterans Affairs database. “These populations have been followed continuously since discharge from military service, so we can observe whether mild TBI is associated with new neurodegenerative disorders affecting individuals over time,” Dr. Tsao notes. “Early-onset dementia before the age of 65 is of great concern as it is not the norm,” he adds. “If we do discover that there is an elevated risk with a history of concussion early in life, this would require a greater focus on preventing injuries and what we could do to reduce the risk of disease.” Dr. Tsao and colleagues have identified some of the risk factors for developing long-term, but immediately noticeable, sequelae of mTBI , including multiple mTBIs, mTBIs overlapping with post-traumatic stress disorder or anxiety, mTBIs before complete recovery, and mTBIs resulting from close blast exposure. Searching for Biomarkers One path to more effectively track and manage mTBI cases could be to identify a biomarker that is easily obtained and that determines the presence and severity of a head injury, Dr. Tsao says. Unfortunately, prior research into proteins, microRNAs, and metabolites as potential biomarkers has not yet revealed a reliable standard. In a collaboration with Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD , Dr. Tsao is beginning to investigate whether changes in tau and other neuronal proteins following blast exposure and concussion can be used as biomarkers. “If there is a way to identify early who these people are, there might be a way to treat them years before they show up with clinical symptoms,” Dr. Tsao says. Jack W. Tsao, MD, DPhil, is the Dr. Edwin H. Kolodny Professor of Neurology. His research interests include dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, concussion and more severe forms of traumatic brain injury, and quality improvement in neurology. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Bronchiectasis is characterized by chronic cough and marked by thickened, dilated airways on CT scan. Airway dilation can cause cilia impairment, failure of mucus clearance, increased risk of infection, and airway obstruction, leading to impaired lung function. The lungs of people with bronchiectasis are often colonized by harmful fungi and bacteria, including nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM). “Awareness of bronchiectasis and NTM lung disease has increased, as have incidence and prevalence ,” says , co-director of NYU Langone Health’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Multidisciplinary Program , a leading center in the management of bronchiectasis and NTM infection. “While diagnosis is often delayed two to three years or more, with increased use of chest CT scans and advanced microbiology laboratories, diagnosing these patients has improved in recent years.” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris and the program are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions. Despite medical therapy being effective in up to 75 percent of NTM cases, she says, some NTM infections are difficult to treat and require innovative therapies. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines, and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” “Every patient with bronchiectasis and NTM infection is different,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “The goal is to treat the majority of patients based on the newest guidelines , and for those with complex cases to develop personalized treatments based on clinical outcomes, microbiology, and biomarkers.” Better Identifying Subtypes of Bronchiectasis There are many causes of bronchiectasis , says Dr. Addrizzo-Harris. “It could be congenital, such as cystic fibrosis (CF) or immunoglobulin deficiencies. Or it could be caused by prior infection, chronic aspiration, ciliary abnormalities, alpha-1 antitrypsin disease, rheumatologic disease—the list goes on.” New biomarker research is applying emerging phenotyping and endotyping techniques to identify the patient populations who would most benefit from specific treatments, with the goal of better targeting new treatments directed at infection, inflammation, and other aspects of the disease cycle. Dr. Addrizzo-Harris works closely with Leopoldo N. Segal, MD , director of the Translational Lung Biology Laboratory, in analyzing the lung microbiome to determine patterns that may give clues to better ways of treating patients with NTM infection. “Do we need to treat the bacteria, or is there something we need to treat that is in the white blood cell and part of the inflammatory cascade? That’s the thought right now,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. Improving NTM Treatment It is critical to get frequent sputum samples in patients diagnosed with bronchiectasis to evaluate for harmful organisms, Dr. Addrizzo-Harris notes. “Which starts first—the NTM or the bronchiectasis? CT scan can reveal infection, but if you don’t get sputum, you won’t find these and some of the fungal infections associated with bronchiectasis such as aspergillosis.” Antimicrobial sensitivity testing or erm gene analysis may be necessary, explains Dr. Addrizzo-Harris, as NTM species and subspecies have varying susceptibility to existing antibiotics, including macrolides. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support. Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Several new drugs hold promise for treating NTM infections, with antimicrobials apramycin epetraborole omadacycline currently in trial. NYU Langone researchers participated in a study of inhaled liposomal amikacin for treatment of Mycobacterial avium complex that demonstrated 30 percent increase in sputum conversions and longer durability in approximately 50 percent of patients. Bacteriophages have demonstrated favorable clinical outcomes in a preliminary trial in patients lacking other options. NYU Langone researchers have published a pilot trial using as a viable option for patients requiring lung resection. “Before, non-CF bronchiectasis and NTM infection were considered rare and had very little support,” Dr. Addrizzo-Harris says. “Now, with new drugs targeted at these areas of pathophysiology that have been identified, we hope to move faster in developing effective treatments.” Clinical and Translational Research Dr. Addrizzo-Harris is joined by David L. Kamelhar, MD Ashwin Basavaraj, MD Stephanie Lau, MD , in conducting a prospective evaluation of patients with NTM infection and collecting clinical and survey data to facilitate study of the disease process. Dr. Segal is developing a biorepository of airway samples collected during antimycobacterial treatment. NYU Langone is the largest contributor of patient data to the COPD Foundation’s Bronchiectasis and NTM Research Registry Expanding Our Circle of Excellence Bringing a new level of care to Brooklyn and Long Island. February 1, 2022 • At , which holds a Joint Commission Certification for Stroke Rehabilitation, an early-mobilization program for postoperative patients after orthopedic or spinal surgery promises to enable discharge to home in one or two days. , which launched its Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in 2019, the staff has grown to include five full-time physiatrists offering comprehensive therapies at clinics across Long Island. View Our Locations CME, Symposia & Events NYU Langone Orthopedics Webinar Series September 21, 2022 6:45 PM – 8:30 PM ET NYU Langone Orthopedics is extremely proud to continue our CME orthopedic webinars. These free, live, online courses are led by and feature experts in the field, and will focus on several important facets of orthopedic surgery. In this course focused on the foot and ankle, faculty experts will discuss innovative techniques to treat cartilage injuries, the latest developments in biologics, and complex reconstructive surgery of the foot. NYU Langone was one of the first places in the world to perform in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), and we will highlight how IONA has revolutionized our practice and patient experience. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Inflammatory Bowel Disease April 8, 2022 This sixth annual CME- and MOC-accredited course presented online is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex IBD. Register Now Cases and Controversies in Heart Failure 2022 May 6, 2022 Virtual Webinar 7:45 am – 3:45 pm ET This course intended for internists, cardiologists, advanced practice providers, and any clinician who cares for or encounters individuals with advanced cardiovascular disease will focus on complex care plans and recent advancements in heart failure. Recent strides in treatment options and management will be presented through a series of case studies. 2nd Annual Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment of Inflammation in Cardiovascular Disease April 29, 2022 8:00 am – 1:00 pm Organized by NYU Langone’s Center for the Prevention of Cardiovascular Disease with assistance from the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, this half-day course will survey latest advances in management of patients at elevated risk of cardiovascular and cardiometabolic disease due to underlying systemic inflammation. Topics will include such landmark trials as the CANTOS trial, those related to colchicine, and upcoming clinical trials in cardiology targeting the immune system. SBRT22 – Third Annual NYU Langone Long Island Department of Radiation Oncology SBRT for Prostate Cancer Course April 29 – May 1, 2022 Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy (SBRT) has emerged as an exciting, validated, and now standard treatment option for men with localized prostate cancer. This Comprehensive and Interactive Hands-On Course, offered in person and virtually, will provide an overview of the long-term data, treatment planning techniques and clinical considerations for optimizing the use of SBRT while minimizing side effects. Friday, April 29, 2022, 7:00 AM – Sunday, May 1, 2022, 10:15 AM, Fairmont Scottsdale Princess, AZ: +1 -888-495-2126 (mention NYU Langone SBRT for Prostate Cancer, for discounted rate), Scottsdale, AZ Invasive Cardiology Update for Practicing Health Care Professionals September 9, 2022 7:00 AM – 6:00 PM ET (held in person at NYU Langone Health and live-streamed online) This symposium will offer the latest updates on diagnostic and treatment strategies to assess risk of coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, congestive heart failure, valvular heart disease, arrhythmias, and preventive cardiology. Using a didactic learning approach, it will provide education on best practices to improve patient outcomes, expand on current therapy options, and reduce morbidity and mortality related to cardiovascular disease. Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Pancreatic Disease September 23, 2022 7:45 AM – 5:00 PM ET This one-day course is focused on the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of complex pancreatic disease including pancreatitis, high-risk and pre-cancerous conditions, and pancreatic cancer. Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty, the program will cover special topics including early detection biomarkers, minimally invasive therapies for premalignant and malignant disease, personalized approaches to pancreatic cancer treatment, and selection of patients for pancreatectomy and autoislet transplant. Dietary and Lifestyle Strategies for Cardiovascular Risk Reduction October 14, 2022 Held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 7:30 AM – 2:30 PM This half-day course focuses on strategies to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease and related comorbidities through lifestyle and dietary approaches. The program will provide evidence for the association between diet and cardiovascular disease, highlighting new clinical and scientific data. Expert presenters will share the latest knowledge in nutrition controversy, the impact of exercise on immune function, and the connection between the human microbiome and cardiovascular disease. Advances in Movement Disorders October 28, 2022 7:30 AM – 4:30 PM ET This comprehensive review will provide an update of the diagnosis and management of a broad range of diseases including Parkinson’s disease, chorea, tremor, ataxia, myoclonus, and dystonia. Attendees will learn about current diagnostic and management options for these conditions. Botulinum toxin injections, deep brain stimulation, and high-intensity focused ultrasound as therapeutic modalities will be discussed along with novel and emerging therapies for the treatment of various movement disorders. Comprehensive Spine Course September 30, 2022 To be held in person and live-streamed online NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th St., Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 3:45 PM This one-day course is a comprehensive review of the spine care continuum: examination, evaluation, and diagnosis; therapeutic interventions; spinal injections; and surgical interventions. Each area will present common pitfalls, the application of practical experience, and a comprehensive understanding of evidence-based care. Faculty experts will present the latest knowledge and review the proper handling of differential diagnosis and selecting appropriate interventions. Brainwaves: Emerging Uses of Neuromodulation for Neurological and Psychiatric Disorders October 21, 2022 8:15 AM – 1:10 PM ET This CME activity, now in its seventh year, provides a broad introduction to the field of neuromodulation, which incorporates deep and transcranial brain stimulation, as well as lesioning technologies such as gamma knife and focused ultrasound. Designed for those new to the field, as well as those with experience, the course covers both practical management issues and an in-depth look at future directions, along with “hot topic” discussions by some of the nation’s leading thought leaders. Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery: A Clinical Update NYU Langone Health, 435 E. 30th Street, Schwartz Lecture Hall E 7:30 AM – 4:50 PM ET This comprehensive, multidisciplinary course is designed to provide practitioners who see women with disorders of the pelvic floor with the most up-to-date information in the field of FPMRS including terminology, diagnostics, therapeutics, and surgical techniques. Urologists, gynecologists, advance practice providers, and trainees will present practical information and evidence-based approaches. Audience participation and panels will be utilized to drive lively and informed discussions. Current Concepts of Ophthalmology 2023 January 6 – 7, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall New York January 6, 2023, 8:00 AM ET – January 7, 2023, 12:00 PM ET This course, now in its 13th year, highlights current concepts in cataract surgery, retinal diseases, glaucoma, diabetes-related eye disease, neuro-ophthalmology, and oculoplastics. The live format features opinion leaders in the various specialties presenting new and interesting topics with question-and-answer sessions. Resident eye physicians also present unusual cases to expert panels for vibrant discussions. Fifth International NYU Langone Hip Dysplasia Symposium September 16, 2022 7:45 AM – 3:30 PM ET The fifth iteration of this symposium will focus on gaps in the knowledge of hip dysplasia. The first section will focus on early identification and optimizing non-operative approaches. The second, aimed at the orthopedic surgeon, will focus on cutting-edge surgical treatments. Participants will learn best practices for identifying and treating hip dysplasia, recognizing complications and pitfalls in treatment, and developing treatment strategies. Researchers from around the world will discuss their work. Management of Patients with Voice, Swallowing and Airway Disorders January 21, 2023 Virtual Webinar | 7:45 AM – 4:00 PM ET Patients with voice and swallow-related complaints require a vast range of treatment modalities. This one-day course will focus on the didactic knowledge and practical experience needed to improve the practitioner’s knowledge base and diagnostic therapeutic accuracy. The program is a comprehensive review of the NYU Voice Center’s team approach for patients with voice, swallowing, and airway disorders, and will focus on common patient complaints and understanding of evidence-based care. Adult and Pediatric Endoscopic Ear Surgery and Cochlear Implantation November 4 – 5, 2022 Bellevue Hospital, 462 First Avenue | Room 5E11 7:30 AM – 5:00 PM ET This comprehensive two-day course is designed to provide a review of the latest techniques in ear surgery. Participants will update and expand their understanding of temporal bone anatomy and innovative surgical techniques for adult and pediatric endoscopic ear surgery, advanced middle ear and mastoid surgery, and cochlear implantation including challenging anatomic cases and revision surgery. Presenters include NYU Langone otolaryngology and neurosurgery faculty and guest experts. 11th Annual Articular Cartilage Repair Course: State of the Art Management of Complex Cartilage and Meniscal Lesions November 5, 2022 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Avenue | Alumni Hall 6:30 AM – 1:00 PM ET This program will address the biologic approach to the treatment of cartilage injuries, using marrow stimulation techniques, osteochondral grafting, and cell-based repair methods to fill symptomatic defects.Risks and benefits will be discussed along with alternatives – operative and non-operative management, as well as specific improvements, expectations, and patient demographics. Additionally, patient safety topics will be presented as they apply to the decision-making process. Shoulder Arthroplasty Course May 19 – 20, 2023 InterContinental New York Barclay 6:30 AM – 3:00 PM This inaugural in-person educational event will bring together shoulder arthroplasty experts from around the world. The program will present the full spectrum of topics from preoperative evaluation to treatment of complications including primary and complex revision cases and all topics in between. The course content will provide a fast-paced program utilizing multiple formats — lectures, panel discussions, roundtable discussions, re-live surgery, and debates. Psychedelic Medicine October 29, 2022 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM ET Psychedelic-assisted therapies have shown promise in the treatment of multiple psychiatric disorders, with both MDMA and psilocybin receiving “breakthrough therapy” designation from the FDA. This course will provide an overview of contemporary psychedelic research, including naturalistic studies, clinical trials of psychedelic-assisted psychotherapy, and cutting-edge basic science research. The program will be of interest to both clinicians and researchers, highlighting the need for collaboration across disciplines. Post-Acute Covid Syndrome: Progress in Science and Patient Care November 15, 2022 Offered in person and live-streamed online 7:30 AM – 4:15 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide faculty and physicians-in-training an overview and update on the diagnosis and management of post-COVID patients. It will address a broad spectrum of clinician needs in the understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, currently available diagnostic techniques, and the current standard of evaluation and treatment. NYU Langone faculty experts will highlight the best screening practices in COVID patients with various medical complaints. Irwin D. Mandel Advances in Cardiovascular Risk Reduction: Improving Treatment for Patients with Diabetes December 1, 2022 This one-day course will provide a comprehensive approach to the management of patients with dyslipidemias, including an in-depth review of novel pharmacological agents and a practical overview of their use in clinical care. Screening for genetic mutations in lipids and the current state of cardiovascular genetics will be covered, as well as endothelial cell gene expression as a marker for cardiovascular disease risk. An update on diagnostic tools for cardiovascular risk assessment is included. Update on Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Through the Lifespan December 3, 2022 8:15 AM – 4:05 PM ET This course will focus on the latest issues in Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) throughout the lifespan – in children, adolescents, and adults. Topics to be covered include sluggish cognitive tempo; treatment of ADHD with a focus on new therapies; ADHD and substance use disorders; co-morbid conditions in ADHD; diagnosis of ADHD in adulthood; and exposure to systemic viruses and ADHD symptoms. The course will be a full-day, virtual activity with a breakout “Ask the Expert” session. Eighth Annual NYU Langone Advanced Seminar in Psoriasis and Psoriatic Arthritis December 9, 2022 The seminar is an informative educational conference for physicians across disciplines with a special interest in psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. The program will review and address those areas such as COVID-19 where recent knowledge is available, focusing particularly on translation into practice. It will also explore the areas that are likely to prove important to the near-future management of patients. Participants will have the opportunity to raise questions and participate in dialogue with experts. Advances in Critical Care and Resuscitation December 15, 2022 7:45 AM – 4:20 PM ET This one-day symposium is designed to provide critical care and emergency medicine providers an update on the latest in medical management. The course will be organized around organ-specific themes and include a discussion of survivorship and psychological outcomes and ethical dilemmas in the ICU setting. Experts from NYU and around the world will delve into the physiology, pathophysiology, diagnosis, and management of critical care patients. NYU Langone Neurosurgery Update: A One-Day Symposium December 2, 2022 7:00 AM – 5:00 PM The spectrum of neurosurgery includes cranial, spinal, and peripheral nerve disorders related to vascular disease, brain tumors, pain, and movement, as well as behavioral disorders, epilepsy, and trauma. This one-day program will address significant clinical problems for which there may be clinical equipoise on available options, or for which current science does not provide solutions based on high-level medical evidence. Surgical, Pharmacological, and Technological Advances in Urology December 8 – 10, 2022 7:45 AM ET The diagnosis and management of many urologic diseases have been greatly influenced by recent pharmacological, surgical, and technological advances. This update, led by an internationally acclaimed faculty, will provide presentations on male sexual dysfunction, endourology, voiding dysfunction, prostate cancer, reconstructive urology, and chronic pelvic pain. In this live format, case presentations and Q&As will enhance the didactic lectures. March 2023 Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Esophageal Disease and Inflammatory Bowel Disease March 1 – 31, 2023 These CME- and MOC-accredited courses are focused on emerging concepts and controversies in the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and evidence-based treatment of individuals with benign or pre-malignant esophageal disease (March 24) and complex IBD (March 31). Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty of national leaders and an interactive format, each full-day program discusses novel treatment options, emerging issues in clinical care, and challenging complex patient cases. Bladder Cancer Symposium: Update on Medical and Surgical Management for the Urologist March 10, 2023 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 12:00 PM – 6:00 PM ET This course will focus on the diagnosis and management of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC); novel therapies for high-risk NMIBC; immunologic approaches; and technical advances in surgical treatment, bladder preservation, and reconstructive surgery. Case presentations with faculty participation will enhance the practical value of the course, and registrants will have the opportunity to participate in question-and-answer sessions. Pediatric Rheumatology: 12th Annual Update for Clinicians March 15, 2023 12:30 PM – 5:30 PM ET With fewer than 250 pediatric rheumatologists in the United States and several states lacking even a single pediatric rheumatologist, this course fills a critical need for general pediatricians and adult rheumatologists to have sufficient training to diagnose and potentially manage children with rheumatic disease. Promoting increased awareness is essential for early treatment of rheumatic diseases in order to minimize damage and improve patient outcomes. Conferences 6th World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference July 18 – 20, 2023 New York, NY | Hosted by NYU Langone Health World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference 2023 will explore recent advances in the diagnosis, treatment and management of bronchiectasis and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections. CME-accredited in-person and livestreaming course includes expert lectures, original research presentations, panel discussions, and more. Register Here Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment April 28, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Ave, Alumni Hall 7:45 AM – 2:50 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide an informative and practical guide to clinical management across a spectrum of cardiovascular conditions in those with systemic inflammation and such disease states as recurrent pericarditis, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerosis. Updates on novel imaging techniques, microvascular testing, and MRI to evaluate the myo and pericardium will be presented, as well as emerging data and practical lessons from cardio-rheumatology clinics. Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Spinal cord injury (SCI) in children and adolescents is a complex and life-changing condition, and yet, there is no agreed-upon international model of care to inform best practices and improve rehabilitation services. Recognizing this problem, a team of specialists from seven countries came together to study and compare the existing systems of care , with the goal of fostering collaboration and harmonizing best practices in the field. Tamara Bushnik, PhD , experts from NYU Langone Health’s , took part in the initiative. The project was the first international multicenter study to describe the organization of services and systems of care for specialized pediatric SCI rehabilitation “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation.” “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” says Dr. Sukhov, a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and a pediatric physiatrist at Paucity of Research According to Dr. Sukhov, the body of literature on pediatric SCI rehabilitation is scarce, noting that access to services, the rights of children, and the quality of healthcare can vary widely in and between countries. “Specialized pediatric rehabilitation services require high-level medical expertise and resources,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “The multidisciplinary service includes ongoing evaluations, establishment of treatment goals and patient-focused guidance provided by a highly qualified team ideally led by a pediatric physiatrist.” Moreover, he emphasizes that non-clinical factors, such as access to care, programmatic support, community mission-based support, and availability of follow-up services have a considerable impact on outcomes, but are not well described. “Pediatric SCI requires a lifelong commitment to rehabilitation, supported by both healthcare and philanthropic organizations, to ensure that the child affected by SCI will be able to transition to adulthood and rejoin society,” Dr. Sukhov says. First-of-Its-Kind Study The researchers pooled data from 10 rehabilitation units in seven countries (China, Israel, Norway, Palestine, Russia, Sweden, and the United States), finding similarities in the organization and administration of services, but also notable differences. With respect to similarities, most units were publicly funded, and only 3 of 10 had a dedicated pediatric SCI unit. While there were large variations in catchment area, pediatric population, and referrals, the majority had similar challenges in discharge policy, such as home modifications and funding of equipment. While all units offered some type of long-term follow-up activities post-discharge, the frequency and content of the follow-up varied across units—some units did not meet in person for follow-up stays, but instead offered information booklets, telephone calls, or video consultations. “Extension of these studies may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Overall, seven units offered lifelong follow-up. Four units had mobile follow-up teams, and after the age of 18 years, most adolescents were transitioned to an adult unit for follow-up. Concerning disparities, there was a notable variation in staffing between units, and some teams did not prioritize interdisciplinary and multiprofessional collaboration. “The primary concern for SCI care is the welfare of the child despite economic, sociodemographic, and cultural differences between countries and regions,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “We highlight the imperative humanitarian need to expand understanding of SCI models of care for children, ultimately resulting in better clinical and functional outcomes.” Call to Action Based on these findings, the investigators identified a need for evidence-based, international guidelines for children with SCI rehabilitation needs. To bring this to fruition, next steps will be to strengthen existing relationships and form new collaborations with experts both nationally and internationally, Dr. Sukhov says. “Extension of these studies can potentially bridge the gaps in our collective knowledge on pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” Dr. Sukhov says, “and may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH To improve the quality and efficacy of colonoscopy, estimated to miss upwards of 30 percent of polyps , endoscopists at NYU Langone Health are working with computer-aided polyp detection (CADe) systems that act as a second set of eyes. National, multicenter clinical trials evaluating artificial intelligence (AI) in colonoscopy have solidified the technology’s role as a true aid, with NYU Langone researchers , involved in two such studies. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients,” says Dr. Shaukat, the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients.” “As the role of artificial intelligence in endoscopy grows, we are making sure that it is adding value to patient care,” says Dr. Gross, clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology AI as a Proven Aid Recently reported in , Dr. Shaukat led a large randomized controlled trial that evaluated a CADe device, SKOUT, in colonoscopy procedures. Involving nearly 1,500 participants, the study found the device increased the adenomas per colonoscopy (APC) rate by 27 percent, from 0.83 to 1.05, while causing no increase in resection of non-neoplastic lesions. Notably, the device supported a 20 percent increase in the detection of small (1 to 4 millimeter) lesions and a 29 percent increase in the detection of larger (5 to 9 millimeter) lesions, challenging a criticism that AI systems only increase the detection of diminutive polyps. “Use of the CADe system enabled an increase in the detection of large lesions particularly in the proximal colon, which is of great interest as studies suggest traditional colonoscopy is not as effective at preventing proximal cancers,” Dr. Shaukat says. Building on Early Success The trial builds on one of the first randomized controlled trials of CADe for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States. Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology with Dr. Gross as a co-author, that study found an increase in APC and a decrease in the miss rate of adenomas, polyps, and sessile serrated lesions with the use of the CADe device EndoScreener. “When you find large adenomas and sessile serrated lesions, those are always value-add. But we’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Dr. Gross says. “We’ll probably never know that information because when we see a polyp, we remove it.” “We’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Seth A. Gross, MD, MPH Both EndoScreener SKOUT have received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. Rethinking Surveillance Given New Demands An increase in polyp detection rates with the use of AI also means an increase in the number of patients requiring surveillance. Yet, this is another area in which AI may provide solutions, says Dr. Gross, by better risk-stratifying patients based on what is found during colonoscopy. Recent updates to colorectal cancer surveillance guidelines from the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force, of which Dr. Gross is a member, are also serving to address this concern. “For very small precancerous polyps, what used to be a five-year interval is now a seven-year interval, what used to be a guaranteed three-year interval is a three- to five-year interval,” he says. “These adjustments are made based on studies and outcomes data. You don’t want to bring someone back for a very diminutive, precancerous polyp when they could probably wait a little bit longer. Hopefully that will balance out what the technology does in terms of identifying more patients to follow.” Dr. Gross has served as a consultant for Olympus. Dr. Shaukat reports research funding to NYU Langone Health for the current manuscript from Iterative Scopes and consulting fees from Freenome Inc and Medtronic. Seth A. Gross, MD, is clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology and a professor of medicine. His research focuses on new technologies for screening, diagnosing, and treating cancerous and precancerous gastrointestinal conditions. Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH, is the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, a professor of population health, and director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Her research focuses on colorectal cancer screening and prevention. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Disorders of the cornea are a leading cause of blindness worldwide . While surgical transplant of donor cornea is an effective treatment option, it remains out of reach for most patients. This large unmet need has helped to propel interest in developing cell-based regenerative therapies for blinding corneal diseases, says Shukti Chakravarti, PhD , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology at NYU Langone Health. “A crucial step to developing such therapies is improving our understanding of corneal tissue development, as well as the interactions between corneal cell types,” Dr. Chakravarti explains. Dr. Chakravarti and her research team are exploring the development of 3D organoids that could offer researchers a new investigative platform to better model the cellular complexity and functionality of the human cornea. They recently published preliminary results of their work in PNAS Nexus “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis. We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis,” says Dr. Chakravarti. “We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” Addressing Current Shortcomings While some studies have investigated the single-cell transcriptomic composition of the human cornea, its organoids have not been examined extensively. Conventional 2D cell culture models often lack key information about tissue development and the consequences of interactions between cell types. The researchers began their approach with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the central human cornea to determine its epithelial, stromal, and endothelial cellular landscape. They also performed scRNA-seq on human cornea organoids and compared the organoid single-cell transcriptome with that of the adult human cornea. Modeling Corneal Diseases In their report, Dr. Chakravarti and her team showcased the repertoire of cornea-like cells present in the organoid. As a whole, the organoid displayed features of a developing or a healing cornea. “Our sequencing data show the presence of all three cell types in the organoids and, overall, their closer resemblance to developing rather than adult corneas,” says Dr. Chakravarti. While the three major corneal cell types—epithelial, stromal keratocyte, and endothelial—are often investigated in single monolayer cultures, the 3D organoid system has already confirmed that interactions between all the three major layers are imperative for proper functioning of the cornea, she adds. Based on these initial findings, the organoids offer a promising experimental system to model human diseases in tissue culture. While the 3D model appears to best conventional 2D cell culture models, further refinement and validation is still needed. “Additional standardizations and sequencing of larger batches are needed for consistency. In the meantime, the cornea organoids may be used in functional studies of genes during early corneal development,” says Dr. Chakravarti. Ophthalmology, Pathology Shukti Chakravarti, PhD, is a professor and Interim Vice Chair for Research in the Department of Ophthalmology and a professor in the Department of Pathology. Her research focuses on understanding how the extracellular matrix regulates cellular functions and tissue homeostasis and identifying the underlying genetic causes in the corneal disease keratoconus. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? Comparison study presents a model for investigating costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections vs. ranibizumab PDS for nAMD. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 NYU Langone Health experts joined international ophthalmology colleagues in Chicago, September 28-October 3. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Early diagnosis, disease stabilization, risk factor awareness, and genetic studies offer hope for patients. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery A researcher of new, less-invasive technologies explains that all surgical options still play valuable roles. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity An expert in ROP discusses opportunities to fix the gaps in detection and diagnosis. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease Ken H. Cadwell, PhD Crohn’s disease is influenced by a complex mixture of genetic and environmental causes. Past studies have shown that a variant of the ATG16L1 gene is associated with increased risk of the disease. In mouse models, for example, viruses can trigger symptoms in animals bred with that mutation. Until recently, however, the process by which those pathogens activate the illness has remained unknown. A pioneering study led by NYU Langone Health researchers, , has revealed a mechanism for the first time and points toward a new target for developing improved treatments. “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation,” explains study co-senior author , the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology. “When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation. When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” , a professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of NYU Langone’s , also served as co-senior author of the new study. Identifying a Protective Protein Previous investigations of have suggested a link between Paneth cells—intestinal epithelial cells crucial to regulating gut microbial communities—and the inflammation characteristic of Crohn’s disease. Mice with the mutant gene, as well as humans with Crohn’s disease who have two copies of the risk allele, often display abnormalities in Paneth cells. In experiments with mutant mice raised in a sterile environment, these abnormalities emerged only after the animals were infected with murine norovirus (MNV). In their recent study, NYU Langone researchers set out to learn how this damage took place. They studied groups of mice with and without the mutation. In both groups, intestinal T cells known as γδ intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) secreted apoptosis inhibitor 5 (API5), a protein that signals the immune system to stop attacking once a microbe has been subdued. When the mutant mice were infected with MNV, however, their γδ IELs lost the ability to secrete API5, leaving Paneth cells vulnerable to injury or destruction by a dysregulated immune response. To see whether increasing API5 levels could have a protective effect, the team injected some of the mutant mice with the human version of the protein. All the treated animals survived, while half of the untreated group died. In human gut tissue, the researchers found, patients with Crohn’s disease had between 5- and 10-fold fewer API5-producing T cells than those without the disease. When the team constructed intestinal organoids from people with the risk allele, these “mini-guts” showed impaired growth and susceptibility to damage when exposed to tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a proinflammatory cytokine. Treatment with API5 improved organoid viability and Paneth cell numbers, and enhanced their resistance to TNF-induced cell death. A Potential Therapeutic Target Other factors besides norovirus may play a similar role in “unmasking” the deleterious effect of the variant. “We found that Salmonella infection also suppresses API5 secretion, and previous research has shown an association between smoking and Paneth cell defects in mice and humans with mutations. Rather than a specific microorganism or toxic trigger, it’s possible that multiple environmental stressors that disrupt IEL function can lead to Paneth cell dysfunction and disease in vulnerable individuals,” says Dr. Cadwell. Beyond shedding light on the etiology of Crohn’s disease, the research raises the possibility of a novel approach to treatment. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD “Current therapies, which rely on immune suppression, put patients at high risk for infection and may become less effective over time,” says Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology and the study’s lead author. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” NYU Langone has patents pending (10,722,600, 62/935,035, and 63/157,225) for therapies developed from this treatment approach, from which Dr. Cadwell, Dr. Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, and NYU Langone may benefit financially. The terms and conditions of these relationships are being managed in accordance with the policies of NYU Langone. Immunology, Microbiology Ken H. Cadwell, PhD, is the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology and a professor of medicine. His research centers on understanding how infectious agents and the microbiome regulate susceptibility to inflammatory disease. Gastroenterology, Microbiology Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, is a gastroenterologist and endoscopist and a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology. His research focuses on the pathogenesis of irritable bowel diseases through a translational approach using preclinical models and clinical samples. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Recommendations state that only two medications should be considered, as others lack efficacy. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment An array of new tools and therapies bring precision medicine to IBD clinical care. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit A renowned liver expert updates on the latest diagnostic and treatment options. AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists , clinical chief of the , was involved in one of the first randomized controlled trials of computer-aided detection (CADe) for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States and currently serves on the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy’s (ASGE) Artificial Intelligence in GI task force , which aims to help guide the evolution and implementation of AI technology in the field. Here, Dr. Gross shares with his perspective on the expansive potential of artificial intelligence (AI) in endoscopy, with improved polyp detection through CADe marking the first of many enhancements ahead. Extending the Advantages of CADe Across medicine, there are ever-expanding opportunities for AI to improve care. Now that CADe systems have refined polyp detection, what’s next for AI in colonoscopy and in endoscopy as a whole? Dr. Gross: AI is certainly going to continue to grow. If you look at the colonoscopy procedure itself, identifying polyps and precancerous polyps is just one element. AI can also help in characterization of the polyp, for example, distinguishing whether it’s precancerous or benign. And it will be able to potentially tell us if the bowel cleanse is adequate. Expanding to areas outside of colon polyps to other diseases that we commonly see in gastroenterology, AI will potentially help to detect Barrett’s esophagus or gastric cancer or pick up precancerous cells in someone with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. “For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation.” On top of that, AI provides the potential for voice recognition during procedures, which could enable notes to be generated while we’re working and make the endoscopy unit more efficient. Guiding Care in Gastrointestinal Bleeding AI is also playing an important role in analyzing large datasets. Are there any exciting advancements along this front related to endoscopy? There was a study looking at a population we see a lot as gastroenterologists, which is patients with gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, and being able to risk stratify those patients based on the clinical information in their medical records to determine who should get admitted, who could go home, and who should have an endoscopy. That’s a great example of using AI to help the physician analyze large pieces of data to better guide clinical care. Shaping Priorities for AI Research As a member of ASGE’s Artificial Intelligence in GI task force, you’re working to set priorities for AI applications in endoscopy. What are some key initiatives the group is working on? We’re trying to be advocates for patients and physicians and help ensure that AI algorithms and systems that come onto the market are up to our quality standards. One of our goals is to develop metrics so that new companies that have an AI platform they want to get integrated into daily clinical care know the benchmarks they need to reach. We also do a lot around physician education. AI and the Physician As you’ve adopted AI into your practice, do you feel it’s changed your approach or role in caring for patients? For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation. AI only has the potential to enhance what we’re already doing in medicine today. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses Research led by specialists at NYU Langone Health’s is helping to pinpoint biomarkers—and untangle potential root causes—of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP), a rare but well-recognized cause of death in people with uncontrolled seizures. Each year, SUDEP is estimated to occur in 1 out of every 1,000 people with epilepsy . It affects all age groups and until recently little was understood about how the condition of patients with epilepsy or the characteristics of seizures might lead to death. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” “There was a recognition by physicians and the patient community that we needed to better understand why some patients can have a single tonic–clonic seizure and die from it,” says , chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” Uncovering a Mechanism Dr. Devinsky was a principal investigator involved in the Center Without Walls—a scientific collaborative funded by the National Institutes of Health and launched in 2014 to enhance the understanding of SUDEP. The virtual center yielded several research initiatives characterizing the biomarkers and neuropathology involved in SUDEP. Separately, Dr. Devinsky and his team created the North American SUDEP Registry —the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date—which has gathered and centralized information on the epidemiology of SUDEP in more than 400 patients. The foundational studies powered by both the collaborative and the registry have led investigators to understand a likely mechanism involved in SUDEP: central respiratory arrest and cardiac arrhythmia following tonic–clonic seizures. “These studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures. SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” “Importantly, these studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures,” notes Dr. Devinsky. “We are beginning to build an understanding of all the factors that contribute to a given patient’s risk—but SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” Specific SUDEP Biomarkers In a third research initiative, Dr. Devinsky is collaborating with , associate chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service, to further investigate the clinical, genetic, and physiological mechanisms of SUDEP by combining biospecimens and lifestyle information from patients living with epilepsy—as well as those who have died from SUDEP and their family members. For example, the researchers are analyzing how measures such as heart rate variability may associate with SUDEP, pinpointing new biomarkers, including reduced short-term low-frequency power Along with MRI analyses of structural changes in the brain and electroencephalograph (EEG) data identifying the duration of typical postseizure changes in brain activity, these data can be used by physicians and researchers to stratify patient risk of SUDEP and point to potential areas for intervention. “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target counseling and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment.” “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target patient counseling, identify surrogate end points for interventional studies, and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment,” says Dr. Friedman. Stratifying Risk, Targeting Intervention With the help of artificial intelligence (AI), the researchers are also using biomarker data from the studies to build a machine learning tool that predicts the individual risk of SUDEP, with the goal of assisting clinicians in identifying high-risk patients. “The idea is that you could input a patient’s symptoms, medical history, and other information, and learn that their risk per year is, say, 1 in 2,800. If they are consistent with their medication routine, their risk might decline to 1 in 5,100 per year, for example,” says Dr. Devinsky. For now, preventive strategies for SUDEP are in the form of lifestyle modifications and wearable technologies. Alcohol overuse, obesity, missed medications, and sleeping alone are known risk factors that could potentially be modified through patient education. Technologies such as wearable watches with seizure-related alerts have been developed specifically to lower SUDEP risk. “The majority of SUDEP cases occur when the patient is alone,” adds Dr. Friedman. “If a higher-risk patient lives alone, a neighbor or friend could get alerts in the event of a seizure and know to check on the patient—potentially saving their life.” Epilepsy, Pediatric Epilepsy Orrin Devinsky, MD, is a professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry; and chief of service for the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. His research focuses on the optimal treatment of epilepsy and the causes of sudden unexplained deaths in children. Daniel Friedman, MD, is a professor of neurology. He is also director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center and serves as associate chief and co-director of special procedures for the NYU Langone Epilespy Service. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Over the past two decades, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has emerged as a promising therapy for a wide range of neurologic neuropsychiatric disorders. Yet while specific tDCS products have been approved for such applications in the European Union and elsewhere, the method remains investigational in the United States. Because tDCS can be effective in treating symptoms that resist conventional therapies, while posing little risk of serious adverse effects, many patients are eager to try it. One obstacle to widespread adoption, however, is the need to undergo daily sessions at a qualified facility. NYU Langone Health offers a novel alternative: the nation’s first remotely administered , led by Here, Dr. Charvet discusses tDCS’s expanding use cases and the program’s unique approach. A Winning Combination Dr. Charvet, what led you to establish NYU Langone’s home-based tDCS Program? Dr. Charvet: I was an early adopter of telerehabilitation approaches—using technology to provide therapies to people at home to help reduce their symptom burden and improve their quality of life. After leading a large home-based trial demonstrating the benefits of an online “brain training” program to treat cognitive impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), I was convinced of how much demand there is for telehealth solutions. At the same time, exciting advances were occurring in the use of noninvasive brain stimulation technologies, including the safe and portable method of tDCS. One use of tDCS is to direct the current to the region of the brain that is engaged in a training activity. A growing body of evidence shows that this method, known as “functional targeting,” can boost and harness the outcomes of other therapies. Imaging studies suggest it works by increasing cerebral blood flow in key areas and strengthening neuroplasticity. That led me to investigate whether we could add tDCS to the home-based cognitive training program that we had studied. My colleagues and I partnered with a tDCS device manufacturer, incorporating input from our patient participants, to develop a customized tDCS setup for home-based use. This includes specialized headgear and sponge electrodes, and fail-safe devices programmed to deliver a single dose of tDCS only after the patient has received clearance. We combined this technology with video visits and called the protocol “remotely supervised” tDCS (RS-tDCS) “We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions.” We then began a series of large trials studying the use of RS-tDCS for improving functional outcomes in cognitive motor exercise programs. We first tested the technology in people living with MS, and have since expanded its use to people living with many different types of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. Many patients sought to continue their tDCS treatment after participating in these studies. Patients with other disorders, some of them from outside New York State, began asking us if they could try a similar approach. And in 2019, we launched a program designed to do just that. A Growing Roster of Use Cases Besides MS, what disorders does the program treat? We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions—including recovery and preservation of function in dementias post-stroke sequelae cerebellar ataxia , as well as adjunctive support for patients in minimally conscious states, and symptom management in Since early in the pandemic, we’ve also been treating patients with long COVID, which has shown encouraging results. That effort earned NYU Langone a lead role in the NIH’s ongoing RECOVER NEURO trial. And we’re about to publish a study showing improved language functioning in patients with primary progressive aphasia. The Advantages of Home-Based Care How does NYU Langone administer tDCS remotely? We start with an intake call via telehealth to evaluate the patient’s needs. Then we have a group meeting, which includes everyone from medical staff to biomedical engineers, to design a customized treatment plan. We recommend an initial cycle of at least 20 half-hour sessions for patients and their clinicians to assess whether the therapy is having the desired effect. “We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms.” Treatment is delivered through Epic video visits, ensuring data security and integration with electronic health records. After receiving tDCS headsets targeting brain regions involved in their condition, patients work one-on-one with clinicians who are certified through our rigorous training process, which we also offer to labs nationwide that are studying this kind of approach. We always pair tDCS with another therapeutic activity—anything from cognitive, physical, or language exercises for recovery from a neurologic condition to mindfulness meditation for the treatment of depression. The available evidence robustly supports tDCS as a supplement to such activities, rather than as a substitute for them. Wouldn’t it be simpler to just have patients come into a treatment center? It might be simpler for the clinicians, but home-based care offers two big advantages to patients. First, it’s accessible to people who aren’t willing or able to commute to a clinic five days a week. Second, remote administration allows us to provide tDCS to folks who don’t live near a facility that offers it. We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms. These people are in such need of hope and help. We want to make sure they can get it. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Abraham R. Khan, MD, and Tanuja Damani, MD , experts provide highly specialized care for patients with complex conditions of the esophagus and persistent, challenging symptoms that require advanced diagnosis and treatment. The center is co-led by , who serves as surgical director, and , the medical director. Luis F. Angel, MD , medical director of lung transplantation, and Darya Rudym, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, the team has pioneered a multidisciplinary approach to perform timely pre-transplant diagnostic testing for gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) and, if needed, endoscopic or surgical intervention to resolve the reflux. They also perform post-transplant diagnostic testing and treatment as needed. Here, Dr. Damani and Dr. Khan discuss their unique approach to testing and provide a real case example to illustrate the process. Pulmonary Manifestations of Reflux What is the role of chronic pathologic GERD in lung transplant? Dr. Khan: Chronic gastroesophageal reflux and the potentially associated microaspiration can exacerbate many chronic pulmonary conditions including asthma, interstitial pulmonary fibrosis, and bronchiectasis. Current guidelines suggest lifestyle modifications and acid-suppressive therapy as first-line treatment options, but these interventions are often insufficient for complex patients, such as those undergoing lung transplant. Additionally, the use of acid-suppressive therapy alters the pH of gastric contents without fully addressing the consequences of aspiration into the airway, which can be concerning for some transplant recipients, as we want to prevent reflux-driven damage to the lung allograft and reduce the risk of rejection post-transplant. “In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients.” Dr. Damani: Adding to what Dr. Khan said, severe reflux and regurgitation that cannot be medically managed often jeopardize the longevity of the new lungs due to reflux-induced microaspiration and resulting inflammation. In lung transplant recipients, anti-reflux surgery has been shown to reduce the risk of chronic allograft dysfunction, and thus it is important that low-risk minimally invasive surgery be considered for these patients. Streamlined Testing and Treatment What is unique about your approach to pre- and post-transplant diagnostic testing for reflux? Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup. These awake diagnostic tests can give insights into why the patient has gastroesophageal reflux, and then allow us to understand if that reflux is indeed at risk of aspirating into the airway. Based on these findings and a detailed, personalized interpretation of testing results, we can determine which patients are at increased risk of reflux-driven damage to the new lungs and who may benefit from treatment, whether that be medical or surgical and conducted pre- or post-transplant. “Our team is actively working to identify all patients with severe GERD in the pre-transplant setting. One unique aspect of our approach is that we incorporate state-of-the-art diagnostic tools into the workup.” From a surgical perspective, our goal is to optimize the transition from diagnosis to surgery, and to determine which types of patients with reflux may benefit from intervention. We prefer to perform robotic anti-reflux surgery within 30 to 60 days following lung transplant to minimize any damage from reflux to the new lungs. Our approach is unique in that we truly function as a multidisciplinary team. We hold biweekly lung transplant meetings, which include pulmonologists, esophagologists, and surgeons, where we discuss patients that were previously identified. This allows us to expedite the GERD workup, both pre- and post-transplant. We have also developed secure chat groups on Epic and other platforms that allow for more seamless flows of information and expedited scheduling between the specialist teams for these patients. An Early Glimpse of Success Dr. Damani, do you have any recent examples of success using this approach? Yes. We had a male in his 70s who underwent bilateral lung transplant for interstitial pulmonary fibrosis. He had severe reflux and regurgitation that could not be medically controlled. Shortly after his transplant, he underwent an extensive GERD workup by our esophageal team and we elected to perform a robotic fundoplication. Overall, he did fantastic despite being on immunosuppression and was discharged two days after surgery on no pain medications. He has a great quality of life now, is off all his reflux meds, and is residing back home in Colombia. A Vision for the Future Since seeing early success using this approach, what are your future goals? Utilizing our current pre-lung transplant protocol, we hope to add to the sparse body of literature that pertains to the treatment of GERD in lung transplant patients. Our future aim is to identify the most appropriate medical and surgical therapies for GERD and esophageal motility disorders, both before and after transplant, that lead to successful long-term outcomes. “Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings.” Dr. Damani Our testing approach shows great promise to improve long-term outcomes for lung transplant patients. As we collect and analyze more data, we hope to disseminate these findings through publications in peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations—this would greatly benefit the broader scientific and medical communities. Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Reading unstructured clinical notes, a large language model forecasts hospital readmission and other clinical factors. Training Future Neurologists to Conduct Successful Virtual Exams A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention The Tau NexGen trial is the first to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with a pair of novel drugs. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID NYU Langone researcher helps lead nationwide study testing tDCS in conjunction with brain training. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Denver for six days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of the more than 50 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. For a full list of presentations, please visit the AAN website Saturday, April 13 HeadTalks Benefits and Perils of Skiing: From Mental Well-being and Longevity to Ski Boot Compression Syndrome Presenter: Shae Datta, MD 2:15–3:00PM Sunday, April 14 Introducing the Mobile Integrated Cognitive Kit (MICK) App for Rapid Visual Assessment in a Youth Ice Hockey League for Concussion P2 – Poster Session 2 Sara Hyman Mason M. Blacker, Christina Marini, Samarah Ahmed, Ruby Ross, Mitchell Jarmol, Scott N. Grossman, MD 11:45AM–12:45PM Infection Rates Associated with Anti-CD20 Treatment in Pediatric Onset Multiple Sclerosis S7 – Multiple Sclerosis: Special Populations and Non-MS CNS Neuroinflammatory Disease Lauren Seidman Nadine Azmy, Anna Sosa, Ugo Nwigwe, Kimberly A. O’Neill, MD 4:30–4:42PM Monday, April 15 Plenary Multi-institutional Study of Neurologic Outcomes in People with Multiple Sclerosis Who Are Treated with Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors for Oncologic Indications PL4 – Contemporary Clinical Issues Hannah Kopinsky, MD, 10:15–10:25AM Controversies in Contact Sports: Would you let your kid play? SS5 – AAN Section Spotlight: Neurologic Overlap in Persistent Post-Concussion Syndrome, Sleep, and Headaches Scientific Platform Session Neuronal Microstructure and Glymphatic System Integrity in Migraine Patients Assessed with High-gradient Diffusion MRI S20 – Hot Topics in Headache Melanie Li, MD NYU Langone author: Katharina Eikermann-Haerter, MD 4:18–4:30PM Wednesday, April 17 Measuring Burnout and Practices of Appreciation Within a Neurology Department: Identifying Prevalence and Shaping Solutions S39 – Broadening the Scope of Medical Education in Neurology Daniel De Souza, 4:54–5:06PM Thursday, April 18 Binocular Visual Function Testing in an Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center (ADRC) Cohort: Low-contrast Letter Acuity and Rapid Automatized Naming (RAN) Tasks of MULES and SUN S40 – Neuro-ophthalmology/Neuro-otology Sara Hyman, Arjun V. Masurkar, MD, PhD 2:00–2:12PM Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Study finds no increased risk of hearing loss following stereotactic radiosurgery. Out of 318 patients with unilateral acoustic tumors, 198 had serviceable hearing and 116 had Class A hearing. Within each of the serviceable hearing and Class A hearing patient groups, half of the patients received radiosurgery while the other half were observed, and no difference in hearing loss was found between the different treatment approaches over the course of the study. For patients with intact hearing, the prospect of sterotactic radiosurgery to remove a vestibular schwannoma may trigger concerns. However, new findings suggest the intervention may be a conservative hearing preservation strategy. “There are patients who choose observation for their tumor in the hope of maintaining hearing for as long as possible, while the tumor may still grow, and others who choose gamma knife radiosurgery earlier with the aim of stopping tumor growth and maintaining hearing,” says , director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery. Dr. Kondziolka teamed up with neurosurgery chair , and neurosurgery resident Zane Schnurman, MD, to directly compare hearing outcomes between the two approaches. In the largest study on the topic to date, the team split groups of patients with unilateral vestibular schwannomas into observation or surgery cohorts. The researchers controlled for potential confounders, such as tumor volume, patient age, and sex. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period.” Among 198 patients with serviceable hearing at baseline, there were no significant differences in survival or median time to hearing loss between the cohorts. For 116 patients with Class A hearing at baseline, hearing loss occurred 27.2 and 29.2 months later in the surgery and observation cohorts, respectively. “For the first time, this study showed that both approaches led to similar hearing outcomes during the observation period,” Dr. Kondziolka says. The study has earned the Lunsford & Leksell Radiosurgery Award at the 2022 American Association of Neurological Surgeons Annual Scientific Meeting. Douglas Kondziolka, MD, is the Gray Family Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of radiation oncology, and vice chair of clinical research in the Department of Neurosurgery. He is also director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery and specializes in metastatic brain tumors, acoustic neuroma, meningioma, primary brain tumors, brain vascular malformations, and other neurologic conditions. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 The outer retinal region known as band 2 has long been recognized as a useful biomarker for visual outcome in numerous retinal diseases. Yet no consensus exists on whether band 2 represents the photoreceptor inner segment/outer segment (IS/OS) junction or the IS ellipsoid mitochondria. Because aspects of retinal anatomy at the micrometer scale cannot be resolved by even the highest-resolution near-infrared optical coherence tomography (NIR OCT) systems, that controversy has yet to be settled. A study presented at the 2023 Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology annual meeting, however, offered evidence that could help tip the scales . Led by Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD , associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology, and postdoctoral fellow Pooja Chauhan, PhD, the researchers used a novel approach—visible light OCT, whose shorter central wavelengths can yield a much finer axial resolution. “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS.” “With this technology, we’re not just looking at layers of the retina, but at structures within layers,” says Dr. Srinivasan, whose lab is developing improvements in system design aimed at making the modality a practical complement to NIR OCT. Reflectivity Division Suggests a Myoid Origin In their study, the team performed in vivo visible light OCT to investigate the IS myoid and ellipsoid zones in mouse retinas, and then compared results with ex vivo histology and electron microscopy. They observed a subtle reflectivity division between these zones—a disparity with surprising characteristics. “When we zoomed in with resolution on the micron scale, we found that the myoid had higher reflectivity than the ellipsoid, where the mitochondria are,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. This result, he adds, challenges the current interpretation of band 2 being due mainly to mitochondria scattering within the ellipsoid. “It’s crucial that we learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” “Our measurements agreed much more closely with the IS/OS junction than with the distribution of mitochondria in the IS, suggesting that the latter hypothesis for band 2 needs to be reevaluated.” Shedding Light on Macular Degeneration Progression In previous research, Dr. Srinivasan and his team have discovered half a dozen new retinal features using visible light OCT, including bands in the photoreceptors, the retinal pigment epithelium, and Bruch’s membrane. Going forward, the group plans to investigate how these features change in normal aging and in age-related macular degeneration. “By examining these bands in minute detail, we hope to get a clearer understanding of macular degeneration and other retinal disorders,” Dr. Srinivasan explains. “It’s crucial that ophthalmologists learn to interpret the data on these regions correctly, both to improve our diagnostic capabilities and to develop better treatments.” Ophthalmology, Radiology Vivek J. Srinivasan, PhD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and radiology. His research centers on the development of new light-based technologies for in vivo imaging and sensing of the eye and brain. Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations Conventional surgical approaches to repair a hole in the eardrum, or tympanic membrane perforation (TMP), involve using graft material to repair the opening, requiring general anesthesia and accompanied by significant costs that may be shared by patients. This creates potential barriers to treatment for certain groups including older patients, those with cardiopulmonary issues, and patients with a perforation in their only hearing ear. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase 2 trial , researchers at NYU Langone Health are evaluating the efficacy of a minimally invasive, in-office repair that uses fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) to regenerate the eardrum in chronic, nonhealing TMPs. As part of the study, patients in the control group receive the same in-office approach, with FGF-2 replaced with sterile water. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative.” David R. Friedmann, MD “A randomized controlled trial like this is the gold standard, but it’s rare in surgery because of the complexity of the trial design and the ability to execute it in an unbiased way,” says neurotologist , principal investigator of the study. “Our goal is to produce gold-standard evidence regarding nonsurgical options to treat nonhealing tympanic membrane perforations.” “If the FGF-2 is successful, it will present a significant change in available treatments as well as the groups of patients we can help,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Tissue Regeneration Versus Traditional Tympanoplasty In conventional TMP repair, surgeons use cartilage or other tissue to repair the hole in the operating room. “Certainly with larger perforations of the eardrum, many believe this is the only option for successful closure,” Dr. Friedmann notes. “But the eardrum never looks quite the same and may not vibrate as well as a native eardrum.” In contrast, the approach under study is performed in an office setting. The growth factor under investigation is soaked into a gelatin sponge and secured in place with several drops of fibrin glue. Previous animal studies have demonstrated FGF’s ability to stimulate the division and differentiation of fibroblasts and promote angiogenesis, improve blood flow, and thereby improve closure rates by regenerating the fibrous layer of the eardrum. Images after successful closure often are indistinguishable in appearance and function from a normal eardrum, says Dr. Friedmann. Study Protocol In the ongoing trial, participants are randomized to receive FGF-2 or placebo treatment (the same in-office procedure without FGF-2). Subjects randomized to the placebo arm that do not show complete closure after this initial treatment may cross over to receive the active treatment. The primary outcome is complete eardrum closure as assessed by pre- and post-treatment photography. Secondary outcomes include time to closure, changes in pure-tone and speech discrimination scores, mobility of tympanic membrane as measured by tympanometry, and salvage rate of FGF-2 in patients who fail placebo treatment. A New Paradigm for Tympanic Membrane Perforation Treatment The in-office approach under study is less invasive than conventional surgical treatment. “Patients can avoid completing preoperative medical testing and labs, and barring unforeseen complications, walk out of the office minutes later, avoiding the need to take time off from work or recover from anesthesia. Additionally, it may be less expensive than conventional surgery,” says Dr. Friedmann. The trial is open for recruitment through 2023. Both providers and patients are welcome to inquire. “For patients living with TMP who have been avoiding eardrum repair due to a desire to avoid surgery, age, comorbidities, or existing hearing-related concerns, this less invasive approach may offer a viable alternative,” adds Dr. Friedmann. Learn more about the trial and patient eligibility. David R. Friedmann, MD, is an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. His work focuses on the medical and surgical management of hearing issues and skull base disorders in both children and adults, including chronic ear disease, vestibular schwannoma, and cochlear implants. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 NYU Langone Health experts join colleagues from around the world at the 2024 Combined Otolaryngology Spring Meetings (COSM) in Chicago. COSM is the premier educational and technology forum for providing the subspecialties in Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery with an opportunity to improve and expand knowledge and skills to enhance the quality of patient care. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees. Of particular note is that , will be named the incoming president of the American Neurotology Society. For a full list of presentations at the COSM conference, please visit this website Thursday, May 16 Outcomes of Nasal Tip and Septal Extension Grafts with Autologous Versus Homologous Costal Cartilage Session : Oral : Manuela von Sneidern and : 8:30AM Long-Term Outcomes of In-Office KTP Laser Ablation of Vocal Fold Polyps in Performers : Scientific Session IV—Voice NYU Langone Presenters : Mackenzie O’Connor and : 1:06PM Friday, May 17 Fistulograms for the Management of Recurrent and Atypical Congenital Neck Anomalies : Poster Zahrah Taufique, MD , and Sukaina Hasnie, MD Saturday, May 18 Plastics and Craniofacial II: Practical Approaches. Pediatric Nasal Fractures, Cleft Lip and Palate, VPI : Expert Panel: Plastics and Craniofacial : 4:10–4:55PM Vascular Anomalies II: Practical Approaches. Lymphatic Malformations of the Tongue; Macrocystic Lymphatic Malformations of the Neck : Expert Panel: Vascular Anomalies Megan M. Gaffey, MD : 4:50–5:40PM Sunday, May 19 Michael E. Glassock Scientific Merit Award: Cochlear Implantation with Sporadic Inner Ear Schwannomas: An International, Multi-Institutional Study of 90 Patients : Future Directions in Cochlear Implantation : 10:22AM J. Thomas Roland Jr., MD, Named as the Incoming President of the American Neurotology Society Introduction of President : 11:51AM Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis For a young male with severe spinal cord compression, advanced operative techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery discusses emerging research trends, including the rise of AI and big data. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data BRAIN Initiative award supports further development with a clinical trial planned. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the Culture of Neurosurgery conference in Philadelphia April 29 - May 2, 2022. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient A challenging, but successful multidisciplinary coordination enhances a patient's treatment and recovery. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans In metastatic brain cancer, new mutations can arise spontaneously or in response to interventions, confounding researchers’ ability to track how the cancer is spreading and evolving genetically, molecularly, and clinically. “Almost all tumors respond to treatment, but there’s a lot of variability in how they change,” says NYU Langone Health neurosurgeon . To better understand metastatic brain cancer and how it evolves, Dr. Kondziolka has teamed up with fellow neurosurgeon , to use artificial intelligence (AI) to create the world’s largest public database of brain tumor images. Their project, called NYUMets for “NYU metastases,” is creating a new suite of AI tools to help clinical researchers mine the images for relevant data, map disease progression in real time, and assess how individual cancers are responding to treatment. “For the first time, scientists anywhere will be able to apply computational tools developed from this database for clinical purposes,” Dr. Oermann says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” The collaborators focused on metastatic brain cancer for two main reasons: The disease is hard to treat with standard drugs, radiation techniques, and surgery, and researchers have an unmet need for sufficient data and tools to study it in its full complexity. Over the roughly two-year span that patients receive treatment, they undergo an average of nine scans. “We’re combining the imaging with the clinical outcome data, and then researchers can use it to build their own analytics and test them,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “We are contributing to the public good by essentially giving out free information for the world to use for research.” A Powerful Image Repository The project, officially launched last fall, began a decade ago when Dr. Kondziolka started cataloging the brain scans, treatment plans, and clinical data from patients treated at NYU Langone’s . The repository has since grown to include more than 20,000 image sequences, drawn from 8,003 MRI studies of 1,429 patients. Layering on the AI tools will transform the image catalog into a powerful research tool for neurosurgeons and brain cancer researchers alike. “We do our best to assess how tumors grow or shrink over time,” Dr. Kondziolka says. “But we’re left to wonder: Did the tumor shrink by 17 percent or 75 percent? Did drug X make it shrink more than drug Y? Was radiation more effective than drug X? None of these things are very clear.” The project pairs his expertise in brain cancer and metastases with Dr. Oermann’s extensive background in AI to capture the cancer dynamics in a more comprehensive way. “I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that Dr. Kondziolka has been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower… research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” “Dr. Kondziolka has the largest registry of brain metastases in the world that he’s been painstakingly curating for years,” Dr. Oermann says. “As a computational scientist, I saw this amazing opportunity to take the work that he’s been doing, tie it into multiple other resources at NYU, de-identify it, and then use that to empower the AI and clinical research communities to make advances in how we study brain cancer and brain metastases.” Promising Collaborations The sheer size of the NYUMets database may help researchers overcome the traditional limitations of evidence-based clinical trials, which can be constrained by a smaller size of participants or skewed composition of patient samples. So far, the highly collaborative database has harnessed the combined resources of NYU Langone’s Departments of ; the NYU Center for Data Science ; and the Center for Advanced Imaging Innovation and Research . The project has received additional support from nVidia Inc. and Amazon Web Services. The added power of AI tools has allowed Dr. Kondziolka and Dr. Oermann to launch new collaborations as well, such as a joint project with research scientist and machine learning expert Katherine Link to develop an algorithm for detecting small brain tumors. “We need to fundamentally rethink how we approach cancer analytics if we are to better understand and ultimately treat it,” Dr. Oermann says. “Our goal is to encourage computational scientists to start thinking about cancer the way clinicians do—not as an independent entity, but as a disease someone lives with over time.” NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Our researchers and physicians will be joining colleagues from around the world at the American Society of Clinical Oncology’s 2024 annual meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is the Art and Science of Cancer Care: From Comfort to Cure. During this year’s meeting, Jeffrey S. Weber, MD, PhD will be presenting late-breaking data on a phase 2 trial exploring the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940 for people with high-risk, surgically removed melanoma. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Saturday, June 1 A phase 1/2 dose escalation and expansion study of sonodynamic therapy with SONALA-001 in combination with Exablate 4000 Type 2.0 MR-guided focused ultrasound in patients with progressive or recurrent glioblastoma (rGBM) Central Nervous System Tumors 9:00AM–12:00PM EVEREST-2: A seamless phase 1/2 study of A2B694, a mesothelin (MSLN) logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy, in patients with solid tumors that show MSLN expression and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*02 loss of heterozygosity (LOH) Developmental Therapeutics–Immunotherapy Salman R. Punekar, MD An open-label, phase 1, multicenter study to evaluate the safety and preliminary anti-tumor activity of NT‑112 in human leukocyte antigen-C*08:02–positive adult patients with unresectable, advanced, and/or metastatic solid tumors that are positive for the KRAS G12D mutation Interleukin-6 receptor blockade with tocilizumab to reduce immune-related toxicity with ipilimumab and nivolumab in metastatic melanoma Melanoma/Skin Cancers Judith D. Goldberg, ScD Janice Mehnert, MD , Xiaochun Li, Benjamin Levinson 1:30–4:30PM INTerpath-001: Pembrolizumab with V940 (mRNA-4157) versus pembrolizumab with placebo for adjuvant treatment of high-risk stage II-IV melanoma Monday, June 3 Late-Breaking Data Individualized neoantigen therapy mRNA-4157 (V940) plus pembrolizumab in resected melanoma: 3-year update from the mRNA-4157-P201 (KEYNOTE-942) trial A follow-up presentation to the recently published clinical trial describing the effectiveness of combining the immunotherapy drug pembrolizumab with the neoantigen mRNA vaccine V940. This three-year update shows a higher percentage of durable and meaningful long-term recurrence-free survival or survival without distant spread of cancer in patients who received both treatments (74.8%) compared to those who received only pembrolizumab (55.6%). 10:15–10:21AM Real-world treatment patterns and outcomes by mismatch repair/microsatellite instability (MMR/MSI) status in patients (pts) with advanced endometrial cancer (aEC), 2018-2023 Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth Under high-risk conditions, a large surgical team executes a complex procedure for congenital high-airway obstruction syndrome. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need With careful planning and electrode selection, revisions offer renewed hearing for patients with device failure. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ NYU Langone Health experts joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, September 10-14. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs Current costs of intraocular anti-VEGF medications versus projected costs after FDA approval of a bevacizumab biosimilar. ADAPTED FROM: 2023 Apr 26;S0161-6420(23)00295-6. Anti-VEGF drugs to treat retinal disease represent a major cost for the healthcare system and for patients. Several such medications are currently approved by the FDA for intraocular use, including aflibercept, ranibizumab and the biosimilars ranibizumab-nuna and ranibizumab-eqm. In addition, a cancer drug, bevacizumab, is widely used off-label and for a relatively low cost due to the ability to repackage one oncologic dose vial into multiple doses for intraocular use. However, an investigational bevacizumab biosimilar, now awaiting FDA approval, might challenge the use of off-label bevacizumab as an economical alternative. While biosimilars generally help drive costs down, a study led by NYU Langone Health researchers suggests that this drug—bevacizumab-vikg—could substantially increase the cost burden of intravitreal anti-VEGF agents “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab, the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar could raise costs dramatically.” Ravi Parikh, MD, MPH That danger arises, the team notes, because the U.S. Drug Quality and Security Act prohibits the compounding of a copy of an approved medication. If the FDA approves a bevacizumab biosimilar for intraocular use, the repackaging of bevacizumab cancer drugs for such purposes could be curtailed. Meanwhile, the biosimilar could command a higher price. To determine the impact of such a scenario, the researchers calculated Medicare Part B and patient payments (directly or via secondary insurance) for the most commonly used medications for which data is available. Aflibercept was the most expensive option, at a cost per dose of about $1,451 to Medicare and $361 to patients. Repackaged bevacizumab was least expensive, at $70 to Medicare and $18 to patients. If an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar was priced at $500, the team found, costs to Medicare would increase by 15.2 percent per year—from $3.01 billion to $3.47 billion. Patient responsibility would increase from $768 million to $884 million. If the new biosimilar was priced at $900, Medicare costs would rise to $3.91 billion, an increase of 29.8 percent. Patient responsibility would soar to $997 million. “Unless the FDA can be persuaded to allow an exemption for repackaged bevacizumab,” says senior author , director of healthcare delivery research for NYU Langone’s Department of Ophthalmology, “the introduction of an intraocular bevacizumab biosimilar that is approved for intraocular use could raise costs dramatically, and also likely limit access to an anti-VEGF drug that has been demonstrated to be safe and effective for nearly 20 years.” Disclosure: Dr. Parikh has received consulting fees from Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield, Apellis Pharmaceuticals, GLC Consultants, and Health and Wellness Partners. Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH Ravi S. Parikh, MD, MPH, is director of healthcare delivery research and a clinical associate professor of ophthalmology. His research interests center on improving therapeutic options for patients with ophthalmic disorders. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) can result in varying levels of vision compromise ranging from minor to severe vision loss. While there are excellent treatments for CRVO and visual recovery can improve, the ability to predict the extent of improvement is limited. New findings from investigators at NYU Langone Health indicate a machine learning algorithm could predict visual and anatomic outcomes in patients with macular edema following CRVO (MEfCRVO) being treated with intravitreal aflibercept injection . Additionally, the algorithm predicts dosing frequency with high accuracy. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician,” says vitreoretinal surgeon Yasha S. Modi, MD , who was part of the team that helped to create the model. “Most patients ask, ‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician.” While more research is needed before the tool can be introduced in the clinic, the new findings validate the predictive model and serve as a proof of concept for second- and third-generation models. “With central retinal vein occlusion, there are hugely disparate outcomes. The best predictor of long-term vision is the visual acuity you present with,” Dr. Modi says. “We have all this sophisticated imaging and other relevant data, but we don’t know if those are relevant in a predictive way.” Predicting Outcomes The researchers used datasets from the COPERNICUS GALILEO clinical trials, which tested intravitreal aflibercept injection for MEfCRVO. Both trials mandated six monthly injections; patients were then moved into a pro re nata (PRN; as needed) window and followed for at least one year. “Our goal was to see if we could predict what would happen to individuals after they reached the PRN threshold,” says Dr. Modi. The algorithm evaluated best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central subfield thickness (CST) over a range of time points to predict outcomes at the one-year mark. BCVA at weeks 20 and 24 (the visits before switching from monthly to PRN treatment) were the best predictors of change in BCVA; CST at baseline was a predictor of change in CST, but not absolute CST. “The algorithm was very good at predicting absolute visual acuity six months after switching over to PRN treatment, as well as change in visual acuity,” Dr. Modi says. “It was less reliable at predicting the absolute central subfield thickness, however.” Translating Machine Learning to the Clinic Algorithms, while very good at diagnosing the stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are currently not able to outperform humans in differential diagnosis, Dr. Modi says. Yet with the sheer number of individuals who need to be screened for DR nationwide, there is value in applying assistive algorithms. NYU Langone has a remote DR screening program—a semi-automated camera in the field takes an image, which is then sent to a retinal specialist who interprets it as mild, moderate, severe, or proliferative DR. Algorithms don’t have that granularity just yet, Dr. Modi explains. “There are, however, already FDA-approved AI cameras that can decipher moderate diabetic retinopathy or worse. This binary branch point then triggers an alert to schedule an in-person visit.” It’s easy to see the future as these algorithms get progressively better, he adds. “What if in Walmart or CVS, for instance, patients could get a real-time diagnosis using an algorithm to read the image? If the algorithm detects a significant abnormality, you see a doctor right away. If not, you get screened annually.” Augmenting the Algorithm with Optical Coherence Tomography Moving forward, the team hopes to conduct a prospective study to test the CRVO algorithm, perhaps including optical coherence tomography (OCT) in a supervised fashion. “These are older studies; OCT images are much better now,” Dr. Modi says. He is interested in changes on OCT that might serve as predictive biomarkers. “However, the more you annotate the image, the more you add your own bias when you’re developing an algorithm,” he notes. “It’s a delicate balance.” Uveitis, Vitreoretinal Surgery, Retinal Ophthalmology Yasha S. Modi, MD, is a vitreoretinal surgeon and an associate professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. His research focuses on imaging in retinal vascular disease, including diabetes and vein occlusion, retinal drug toxicity, age-related macular degeneration, and the outcomes of retinal detachment surgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts join international colleagues in San Diego from April 5 to 10. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Breast surgeon Dr. Kathie-Ann Joseph stresses greater vigilance regarding breast cancer risk in Black patients. Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer Investigators evaluate a novel two-fraction approach that uses genetic and MRI data to personalize the radiation dosage. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox During the global mpox outbreak that began in 2022, NYU Langone Health ophthalmologists at and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue cared for two patients whose advanced immunosuppression due to prior HIV infection led to previously unreported and unusually severe oculocutaneous manifestations. The Lancet Infectious Diseases , the clinicians reported that both patients with mpox infection developed severe lesions that spread to a confluent panfacial gangrene with skin necrosis around the eyes and eyelids. In one case, the gangrene caused bilateral globe compromise from corneal perforations. Despite intensive care, both patients died due to systemic complications from their treatment-resistant infections. “Our conclusion is that in patients with advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion.” Steven Carrubba, MD Based on careful histology and a review of decades-old case reports, the researchers found a striking similarity to symptoms of severe infection from the closely related vaccinia virus. “The big takeaway is that we can learn a lot about this disease from prior experiences with related orthopoxviruses that are genetically and clinically similar, such as smallpox and vaccinia,” says chief ophthalmology resident Steven Carrubba, MD, the study’s lead author. A Rare Progression Classic mpox symptoms often include a skin rash or painful lesions, while ophthalmic manifestations can include a vesicular rash around the eyes and eyelids, conjunctivitis, and blepharitis—and in more serious cases, corneal infection and scarring. Ophthalmology chair , who advised on the study, notes that mpox has the potential to be very severe in patients with undiagnosed or untreated immunosuppression, and that an immunological work-up should be considered in anyone presenting with the disease. “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past.” “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past, when faced with new conditions or infectious diseases,” Dr. Colby says. “Through clinical analogy, we can anticipate which systemic and ophthalmic complications of mpox may arise in people who are immunocompromised, and what to expect during future outbreaks,” Dr. Carrubba adds. Lessons from History In very rare cases, according to historical reports, patients vaccinated against smallpox with a replicative form of the vaccinia virus developed profound cutaneous gangrene at the site of inoculation and subsequently throughout the body. In this “progressive vaccinia,” patients were unable to mount a lymphocyte-driven, cell-mediated skin response, which allowed the virus to spread and cause highly necrotic gangrenous lesions. Tellingly, that cutaneous gangrene occurred predominantly in patients with immunodeficiencies involving T cells, such as severe combined immunodeficiency, lymphoma, and leukemia. “Histologically and clinically, we saw almost the exact same findings in patients with advanced AIDS who became coinfected with mpox,” Dr. Carrubba says, including an almost complete lack of lymphocytes in the affected tissues. “Our conclusion is that in patients who have advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent progressive necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion by uninhibited and contiguous spread of virus in tissues devoid of functional lymphocytes,” Dr. Carrubba says. “One lesion continues to expand because the immune system is not able to contain it, much like what clinicians saw with the vaccinia virus.” The similarities between progressive cutaneous mpox and progressive vaccinia also provide insight into how mpox corneal lesions may evolve after autoinoculation of an immune-deficient ocular surface, potentially explaining cases of necrotizing keratitis and globe compromise. Treatment Considerations Neither mpox patient had been vaccinated before the onset of symptoms nor had they been taking highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to treat their advanced AIDS. “For any immunosuppressed patient who presents with suspected mpox, even before official diagnosis, starting treatment early is key,” Dr. Carrubba says. The antiviral tecovirimat is the mainstay systemic treatment for mpox. In addition, he says, starting patients on HAART is critical for immune reconstitution, while a non-replicative mpox vaccine can be given within 14 days of suspected exposure, before symptom onset. For severe or treatment-resistant cases, the CDC recommends additional therapeutics such as cidofovir, brincidofovir, or vaccinia immune globulin. For patients with active skin lesions, maintaining good hand hygiene and avoiding contact lenses are important precautions against localized autoinoculation of the eyes, Dr. Carrubba adds. Trifluridine antiviral eyedrops can be used both prophylactically and as a treatment for corneal and conjunctival disease, while antibiotic and lubricating eyedrops can prevent bacterial superinfection and corneal desiccation. Based on similarities between mpox and vaccinia, Dr. Carrubba says, the population at risk for progressive cutaneous or ophthalmic mpox extends beyond patients with HIV/AIDS to include people with hematologic malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphoma, and other diseases that compromise host lymphocyte function. “It’s important for patients and clinicians to maintain awareness that such severe disease can occur in immunocompromised populations so that both parties can seek the right preventive and treatment measures,” he says. Steven Carrubba, MD, is chief resident within the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. For anyone who missed the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting, director of the at NYU Langone Health , discussed some of the most interesting and important topics during a recent interview with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM. Subscribers can hear the full discussion One of the things that the American Association for Cancer Research focused on is this idea that younger people are getting cancer, and maybe it has something to do with biological aging. Why is this happening? Is it processed foods? Is it alcohol? What’s causing the increase that we’re finding in cancer rates in younger people? It’s multifactorial, and I don’t think we really, truly have a handle on it. Each cancer is probably going to be a bit different. I mean, exposures are certainly something that is in play here. The food we eat, the microbiome, all of them are in play here. And you’re right, cellular aging is an emerging field that may explain some of this. But I don’t think we have the answer yet in a way that could be useful, to help us at this point. What about personalized medicine? Is everybody going to have a different treatment for their cancer? Absolutely. The goal is to be able to take a patient’s tumor—and this is something that we’re building here, and offer a lot of already—and analyze it comprehensively, assessing the genetic makeup and histological makeup. We aim to understand the unique nature of each patient’s tumor. What do we know about it? How do we expect it will behave? What drugs will this respond to? And you have to do that both accurately, but also relatively quickly, because you can’t wait months to start cancer therapy on patients. “The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs.” The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs that target specific mutations in their tumor—so their particular tumor receives the optimal therapy. All of this has to be paired together. It’s what we’re doing now, and it’s only going to become more prevalent. You’re working with CRISPR genetic alterations. We’re going into almost a science-fiction world where we’re altering genetics as well as proteomics to create treatments, right? You’re right, we have tools now that we’ve never had before. We can do gene editing, which is what CRISPR is. And we can actually change individual nucleotides or base pairs in a tumor. So, you can imagine scenarios where you can correct defects. What we’re going to try and do, and we have been doing, is to make the tumors more immunogenic. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing enzyme, computer illustration. SOURCE: Getty Images. The mRNA vaccine technology is also very powerful. It allows a very rapid way to personalize vaccines. At AACR, longer-term results of an mRNA vaccine for pancreatic cancer were announced. That team showed that there are sustained immune responses out to a couple of years. So, I think it’s an exciting time. And going back to your point about translational research, this is the ultimate example, where you can make a personalized vaccine for a patient in a fairly quick amount of time. We have to do better, but it’s just amazing how fast that can go. How does all of this extend to healthcare disparities? Because one of the things we didn’t mention yet is cost, and cost is enormous when you have new treatments, especially if it’s genetic editing. How are we going to make sure everybody gets access to this? One of the main focuses of a cancer center is to study the disparities that occur in our catchment area. So, we spend a lot of time first understanding what the disparities are in incidence. We have robust epidemiological programs to understand what are the disparities for cancer in our own area, which can also apply more broadly. There are whole community outreach and engagement programs that we have here to make sure that patients understand what therapies are available to them and what the important preventative measures are, like vaccines for HPV. We want to make sure that they have access to all of the latest and greatest therapies. “We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us.” So, we spend a lot of time making sure that patients are aware and have access to quality care. We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us. Ultimately, as a healthcare system, the country is going to have to figure [this] out, and there’s going to be an issue in terms of the cost of healthcare. But I can say here we make sure that all of our latest clinical trials and latest developments are available to everybody. One final question about AACR, which is liquid biopsy, diagnosing things from blood tests. Where are we heading in the future? There’s a ton on this now, and I think people have probably heard about this in multiple different contexts. One is in the context of early detection. I think the trials are still ongoing in terms of the utility of it in that space. The other area is using it to follow patients with cancer. And this is where we’re very involved, because I think this is really the future of oncology, which is we’re going to need to follow patients with imaging to see when their tumors come back. But that takes hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of cells to see anything on MRI or a PET scan. But by taking a simple peripheral blood draw, we can sequence that blood and look for mutations from tumors, and then detect the cancer before we even see it on any sort of imaging. So, there’s an early detection for following therapy, and this allows us to change our therapies more quickly. But we can also follow what the next best therapy is because we could see that the cancer developed a resistance mutation, and that this drug will be more effective than the drug that you’re on, and we can make those changes early. And then [there’s] deescalating therapy. If a patient just had surgery and the circulating tumor DNA goes away, that patient might be someone who we can deescalate therapy in because we don’t see circulating tumor DNA. These are things that we use consistently here, and make sure that all patients have access to, but it really is the future. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection With the number of Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias expected to approach 14 million by 2050, an improved national strategy for dementia research, detection, and treatment will be crucial to mitigating the impact on patients, caregivers, and society at large. Recognizing that challenge, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently established the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure Public Health Centers of Excellence (PHCOEs) program, creating three national centers to lead efforts in the areas of early detection, risk reduction, and caregiving. NYU Langone Health was selected to house the BOLD center on Early Detection of Dementia, working alongside a center for Dementia Risk Reduction, administered by the Alzheimer’s Association, and one for Dementia Caregiving, based at the University of Minnesota. , co-directs the NYU Langone–based center with Soo Borson, MD, of the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. “Today, about 50 percent of people who live symptomatically with this condition go undiagnosed, and the consequences can be enormous,” says Dr. Chodosh. “Our charge is to help improve that record. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs, and in which early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” It is by design that the three centers overlap in their areas of focus, Dr. Chodosh adds. “We recognize the tremendous potential for collaboration. Risk reduction strategies, for example, may also serve as mitigating strategies, which typically work best in the context of early detection. Furthermore, those strategies may ease the burdens that dementia places on caregivers.” A National Resource on Early Detection A major initial step in the NYU Langone–based center’s mission was the creation of a multifaceted web portal —a national comprehensive resource of information on strategies to promote and enhance early dementia detection. Launched in May 2022, the site offers resources for policymakers, public agencies, nonprofits, clinicians, and other stakeholders who seek to develop or expand such efforts. Currently, clinical resources available on the portal include an early detection of dementia toolkit and a technical assistance component, which allows organizations to request the center’s expert help with decision-making, capacity building, strategic planning, networking, and other vital tasks. Additionally, the portal includes a library of infographics, newsletters, and articles. Video presentations are in development. Empowering Primary Care Providers and Communities The NYU Langone–based center’s overarching vision is to make early detection of dementia routine practice nationwide, says Dr. Chodosh. “Our position is that the place for this is really primary care. A major impediment to expanding detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” “A major impediment to expanding early detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” The center will offer education in various formats, including a comprehensive care pathway and other educational materials for providers, seminars, symposia, and other events. To improve health equity in dementia detection and treatment, it will disseminate information on public health, clinical, and community initiatives to partner organizations at the local level. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs,” says Dr. Chodosh, “Early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination A large meta-analysis finds no association between COVID-19 vaccination status and an increased risk of Bell’s palsy. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg . 2023 Jun 5. doi: 10.1002/ohn.385. Soon after the arrival of effective vaccines for the COVID-19 virus, a few patients reported Bell’s palsy or similar forms of facial paralysis on sites like the CDC’s Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), which collects raw data for further analysis into whether any correlation may point toward causation. Initial studies suggested that no link existed between the paralysis and the vaccines, but researchers hadn’t assembled and analyzed clinical data from large cohorts to provide a more definitive answer. In a systematic review and meta-analysis published in the journal , NYU Langone Health researchers have now shown from a pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients that there is no association between Bell’s palsy and COVID-19 vaccination “We’ve done a thorough investigation and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial plastic and reconstructive surgeon , the paper’s senior author, specializes in treating facial paralysis and sees many patients with Bell’s palsy and similar conditions. “I would get a lot of patients coming in and asking me if they should get the vaccine because they were worried about a potential link to the paralysis,” she says. “They were really fearful about it and I wanted to be able to give them a clear, evidence-based answer. That’s what prompted us to look into the question further.” A Reassuring Finding for Patients Dr. Eytan and two colleagues included every study around the world with more than 10,000 research subjects and compared the incidence of facial paralysis after vaccination with the incidence in unvaccinated control populations. In all, seven studies yielded a combined pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients compared to an equivalent number of unvaccinated counterparts. Regardless of whether the patients received one or two doses, and whether they received a vaccine made by Moderna, Pfizer, or AstraZeneca, the researchers found no significant difference in Bell’s palsy rates compared with the general population. “The patients are curious: is one vaccine better than the other? There’s no concern there from what we found,” she says. “In fact, unvaccinated individuals who got the COVID-19 virus itself had a higher risk of Bell’s palsy compared to those who were vaccinated.” If anything, then, vaccination appeared to provide protection from the facial paralysis. With the study results in hand, Dr. Eytan has been able to reassure her patients that they shouldn’t fear vaccination. “We can now also remind them that the risk for paralysis is actually even greater if they do get COVID-19,” she says. The message is the same for physicians, she adds: “The evidence is there. We’ve done a thorough investigation by looking at millions of given vaccines and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Cosmetic Plastic Surgery, Pediatric Plastic Surgery Danielle Eytan, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. She specializes in facial plastic and reconstructive surgery, facial paralysis and reanimation, cosmetic plastic surgery, and pediatric plastic surgery. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults Geriatric trauma patients presenting in the emergency department are at high risk for complications and mortality during hospitalization and less likely to be discharged home. In a pilot program funded by a grant from The Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation , NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn will comprehensively examine the geriatric trauma care experience. “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population.” “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population,” says , medical director of geriatric medicine and palliative care at NYU Langone—Brooklyn. “This program establishes a purposeful process that in and of itself should ensure a higher level of care quality.” “Geriatricians, and geriatrics as a specialty, have worked hard to improve the inpatient experience for older patients,” says , director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care at NYU Langone Health. “The Brooklyn program will help to ‘bake in’ new strategies so that the geriatric population can be cared for in a certain way, with greater reliability.” Steps to Improve Geriatric Trauma Care Since 2019, geriatric specialists at NYU Langone—Brooklyn have played a robust role in acute trauma care, supporting the trauma service as they navigate core issues for elderly trauma patients such as frailty, delirium, and dementia. Led by Dr. Parker, the new program, called “Beyond Hospital Doors—Aging Wisely,” will expand the approach to further integrate emergency medicine, trauma, geriatrics, social work, nutrition, nursing, physical therapy, and pharmacy. “We have built a solid infrastructure to ensure this integration happens predictably,” she says. Focused meetings will be held with all clinical stakeholders to discuss how to collectively care for geriatric trauma patients. A weekly interdisciplinary work group including geriatrics, social work, physical therapy, and trauma will identify barriers to home discharge and formulate new care solutions. “We want to be sure the right kind of information is transmitted, and the right kind of actions can be taken,” Dr. Parker notes. Returning Patients to Pre-injury Living The 18-month pilot program aims to increase discharge to home by 10 percent, reducing transfer to skilled nursing. The hope is that with increased support, patients will be able to resume normal activities with greater ease and independence post-hospitalization. Another aim is to minimize polypharmacy by decreasing the number of medications or frequency of medication use—removing any medications that cause cognitive impairment. To reduce barriers to care, social workers will identify family and social support networks that can aid in healthcare decisions. The trauma team will initiate documented advance care planning discussions within 48 hours of admission and identify the need for further social work involvement. Transitional care management will be expanded for patients without primary care physicians or those who cannot see a primary care physician within two weeks. The program will increase early physical therapy and nutrition consults. Additionally, it will connect patients with services in the community that address vulnerabilities such as food insecurity and other social variables influencing health. “It’s been very rewarding to see the collaboration among the different departments here at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and to establish a more interdisciplinary model of care,” Dr. Parker says. “Everyone is working hard to see how they can improve care of these patients.” The Groundwork for Change According to Dr. Chodosh, the program is an opportunity to establish best practices and structures so that even in the absence of a large geriatric care workforce, clinicians elsewhere on the front lines can still “do the right thing.” “If we do a good job of clarifying the actions that yield the most benefit and how to achieve those actions, it will enable those who aren’t trained in geriatrics to focus on key principles, key issues, and key approaches to ensure we have the best outcomes for this population,” he says. Palliative Care, Geriatrics Lauren A. Parker, MD, is a clinical associate professor and medical director of geriatrics and palliative care at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn. Her research focuses on evidence-based care of vulnerable older adults. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Eric K. Oermann, MD, and Biyu J. He, PhD Learning from single events is a crucial element of human perceptual reasoning. Yet the neural networks that govern one-shot perceptual learning (as the process is known) are poorly understood. A $1.2 million grant from the W. M. Keck Foundation will enable NYU Langone Health researchers Biyu J. He, PhD , to explore those systems in unprecedented depth, using advanced imaging and computational techniques. The two hope that in the process the research will unveil new insights into the perceptual anomalies associated with many psychiatric illnesses. “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis,” explains Dr. He, an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. “Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments.” “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis. Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments for those disorders.” This project also aims to solve a very different puzzle: how to improve perceptual learning in artificial intelligence (AI). “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning,” says Dr. Oermann, an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. “By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” Building on Previous Work A classic example of one-shot perceptual learning involves a so-called Mooney image—a photo of an object that has been degraded to a low-resolution, black-and-white image that is difficult to identify. In human trials, participants can typically recognize such an image after a single exposure to the original, intact photo. Once they’ve made that connection, moreover, they can remember it for days, months, or even longer. Previous studies by Dr. He and colleagues have suggested involvement of the frontoparietal and default-mode networks in Mooney image disambiguation. “Our findings support the idea that these areas play a special role in leveraging prior experience to guide perceptual processing,” Dr. He observes. “They also support theories positing aberrant interactions between internal priors and sensory input in psychiatric illnesses, which are often associated with abnormal patterns of activity in those brain regions.” Another study by Dr. He and her collaborator, Larry Squire, PhD, at the University of California, San Diego, in which patients with hippocampal lesions successfully performed a Mooney image task, showed that one-shot perceptual learning—unlike one-shot declarative memory— is not mediated by the hippocampus . “This suggests that non-hippocampal neural pathways may also be involved in the perceptual dysfunctions in psychiatric disorders,” says Dr. He. Forging New Paths In the new study, Dr. He and Dr. Oermann will seek to identify the larger neural networks mediating one-shot perceptual learning by combining behavioral experiments with 7-Tesla functional MRI (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) in healthy volunteers. They will also perform intracranial recordings in neurosurgical patients during learning and other tasks. As they gather experimental data, Dr. Oermann will use the advanced machine learning capabilities available through his NYU Langone laboratory to build an AI counterpart to what they are learning about humans. These models will be continually tested and refined as the research continues. “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning. By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” “Our major goal is to have a better understanding of how the human brain performs one-shot learning,” says Dr. Oermann. “But we also hope the neuroscience will guide us toward developing biomimetic mechanisms for solving the problem of one-shot perceptual learning in machines. Without this type of research, AI could remain over-tailored to the problem of recognizing ambiguous images, without the full robustness of biological perceptual systems.” Both researchers point out that more robust AI models for one-shot perceptual learning, in turn, could lead to enhanced therapies for neurological ills—for example, by developing communication devices for patients with locked-in syndrome, or robotic surgical systems for brain tumor resection. Neurology, Radiology Biyu J. He, PhD, is an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. Her research focuses on the biological bases of perceptual cognition and subjective experience, and on developing new approaches to bridge neural and computational understanding of perception and perceptual disorders. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ 2023 annual meeting in Los Angeles. The theme was “Neurosurgeons as Advocates.” View full conference information and abstract titles Friday, April 21 Practical Clinic PC2203: Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director : 8–11:30 am Saturday, April 22 Scientific Session Comparison of Disc Height Restoration and Subsidence Rates Between Static Versus Expandable Titanium Cages for Lateral Lumbar Interbody Fusion : Scientific Session II: Spine Presenter Kimberly Ashayeri, MD : 3:35–3:40 pm The Predictive Potential of Nutritional and Metabolic Burden: Development of a Novel Validated Metric Predicting Increased Post-Operative Complications in Adult Spinal Deformity Surgery : Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 3:41–3:46 pm Rosenblum-Mahaley Clinical Research Award (2023 Award Winner): GRASP Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI Can Assist in Distinguishing Brain Metastasis Progression from Radiation Effects After Stereotactic Radiosurgery Scientific Session I: Tumor : Assaf Berger, MD 3:50–3:54 pm Better Teamwork Made Simple? Digital Preoperative Huddle Improves Quality and Efficiency in Neurosurgery Cases David B. Kurland, MD, PhD Scientific Session VI: Socioeconomic : 2:02–2:08 pm Sunday, April 23 Plenary Session II: Discussant Speaker : 9:03–9:05 am Artificial Intelligence for Brain Tumors: The Path Forward Section Session: Tumor : 1:33–1:43 pm Monday, April 24 Abstract Session Rapid Fire Research Forum Presenters Peter G. Passias, MD , Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 7:25–9:50 am NYUMets: A Massive, Open-Source, Longitudinal Annotated Dataset of Metastatic Brain Cancer for Global Use Douglas Kondziolka, MD, MSc, FRCSC, FACS : 2:40–2:45 pm Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Atrial fibrillation (A-fib) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and carries a significant risk of stroke and heart failure. Older age is a known risk factor for the development of A-fib , and recent studies have demonstrated that screening asymptomatic older individuals with risk factors for stroke may be useful. At NYU Langone Health, cardiologists and geriatricians are partnering on a more proactive approach to identify older adults who may have A-fib but present with non–cardiac-specific symptoms. Integral to this effort is Adam H. Skolnick, MD , associate professor of medicine and a member of the , who recently published an editorial on this topic in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society with co-author Nina Blachman, MD , assistant professor of medicine and director of the Geriatric Medicine Fellowship “Many older adults may not come to medical attention because they are unaware of their A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick says. “While many patients with A-fib do not report symptoms, some experience nonspecific symptoms, such as palpitation, dyspnea, or fatigue.” Silence Is Not Always Golden recent study published in the offered a first-time exploration of A-fib symptom perception, its impact on quality of life, and its relation to treatment strategies in older adults. The researchers found that patients aged 65 to 74 years reported more cardiac symptoms, and A-fib had a more significant impact on their quality of life compared to the older age groups. Adults aged 85 years and older were more likely to report no symptoms, and most of the reported symptoms were non–cardiac specific, including fatigue and light-headedness. “This study is key in furthering our understanding of A-fib symptoms across age groups and is unique in its inclusion of adults over 85 years of age,” Dr. Skolnick explains. Based on these findings, the researchers recommended that clinicians adopt a more patient-centered approach to managing individuals with A-fib who present with a range of non–cardiac-specific symptoms, and that management with rate or rhythm control needs to be tailored to the individual patient in a holistic manner. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” Dr. Nina Blachman “The population is aging, and we expect to see more patients with atrial fibrillation in the coming years,” says Dr. Blachman. “Physicians should consider atrial fibrillation as a possible diagnosis for patients who present with non-cardiac symptoms such as dizziness.” On the Horizon: Digital Health Technologies As a first step, Dr. Skolnick, together with , are using novel cardiovascular digital health tools to identify undiagnosed A-fib in older adults. “Wearable devices, which contain optical photoplethysmography-based sensors and software algorithms may facilitate identifying older adults with undiagnosed A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick explains. In addition, the Cardiovascular Digital Health Laboratory , also led by Dr. Dodson, is planning and conducting clinical trials evaluating innovative digital solutions to improve population health through hypertension management, medication adherence, and arrhythmia monitoring. The team plans to scale remote cardiovascular health monitoring for patients, making it applicable to other projects in the future. Dr. Dodson notes that the ultimate goal of the laboratory is to enable knowledge sharing among physicians and researchers to help facilitate partnerships on future studies and improve patient care. Cardiology, Echocardiography Adam H. Skolnick, MD, is a master clinician educator and an associate professor of medicine. His research focuses on transesophageal echocardiography, aortic stenosis, acute coronary syndromes, and geriatric cardiology. Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE Nina Blachman, MD, MHPE, is an assistant professor of medicine, and director of the NYU Geriatric Medicine Fellowship Program. Her research focuses on geriatrics education and workforce issues, and she and Dr. Dodson are co-creators of the GeriKit app for geriatric assessment Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Surg Endo . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80. . 2022 Feb 36;1407-1413. There is no difference in rates of sepsis, readmission, or return to OR between patients younger than 65 and those 65 and older. Mortality following elective paraesophageal hernia (PEH) repair remains below 0.5 percent until age 80, according to a recent publication in Surgical Endoscopy . The study, one of the largest to evaluate elective PEH repair in recent years, supports a shift from watchful waiting to operative repair for patients age 65 or older with asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic PEHs. “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery,” says , first author on the study and surgical director of the Assessing Outcomes by Age Utilizing data from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement Program database, Dr. Damani and colleagues identified over 12,000 patients who underwent elective PEH repair between 2015 and 2017, including 5,476 patients age 65 or older. A watchful waiting approach for patients in this age group was originally supported by a Markov Monte Carlo decision model , which indicated that elective repair would only shift to being the optimal treatment if the mortality rate for surgery dropped to 0.5 percent or below. “This data from 20 years ago continues to drive patient referrals for elective surgery of paraesophageal hernias today,” says Dr. Damani. “Watchful waiting can lead to a significant increase in hernia size, making surgery more technically challenging, or can lead to an acute volvulus requiring an emergency operation with higher morbidity.” “Age by itself should not be a contraindication to surgery.” With results from the new study suggesting that this threshold has been reached, Dr. Damani hopes more referring specialists will consider elective repair for elderly patients. “To put in perspective how far we have come, mortality for elective paraesophageal hernia repair falls between the mortality of gallbladder surgery, which is 0.3 percent, and that of colon resection, which is 0.9 percent,” says Dr. Damani. An Uncomplicated Recovery Dr. Damani also emphasizes that age does not impede the relatively quick and smooth recovery following minimally invasive PEH repair. For patients age 65 or older, no differences in return to OR or readmission were noted in the study, and length of stay only increased by a median of 0.5 days. “At our center, we have not needed to send a single patient in the last three years to a rehab facility because of this operation,” says Dr. Damani. NYU Langone Health is a high volume site for hiatal hernia repair, having performed 110 procedures over the last two years alone, Dr. Damani notes. VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Virtual reality (VR) is becoming an important tool in the field of neurosurgery, with applications to medical training and education, as well as in surgical planning and guidance. At NYU Langone Health, a team of , is piloting VR technology for preoperative planning of superficial temporal artery (STA)–to–middle cerebral artery (MCA) bypass. “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution.” “VR is enabling surgeons to tailor approaches to a patient’s specific neurovascular anatomy using interactive 3D models that can be viewed in high resolution,” Dr. Nossek says. “These models have been used in STA-MCA bypass planning to achieve the minimum necessary craniotomy size for a precise bypass localization.” Precise Planning The complexity and intricate nature of STA-MCA bypass warrants precise preoperative planning to identify the appropriate STA donor and MCA recipient, Dr. Nossek explains. “We have to find the optimal location and size of the craniotomy to ensure a high patency rate, as well as low rates of surgical morbidity and mortality.” In contrast to conventional imaging, the VR technology renders 360-degree models of patient-specific anatomy from volumetric imaging, providing enhanced visualization of the spatial relationship within the targeted surgical anatomy and allowing the surgeon to view the patient’s anatomy in high resolution from any vantage point. Efficient Procedures Dr. Nossek and his team recently reported their early experience using the VR-based technology for preoperative planning of STA-MCA bypass. Caleb Rutledge, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of cranial and vascular neurosurgery at , is a co-author on the study. From August 2020 to February 2022, 30 patients undergoing STA-MCA bypass were enrolled into two groups. In one group, a VR-based surgical planning platform was used to preoperatively plan the procedure. In the control group, the surgeon used conventional preoperative planning techniques. “The VR platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” “The VR platform enabled the selection of the ideal vessel candidates for anastomosis and localization of the center of the craniotomy with respect to the anastomosis site,” Dr. Nossek says. “The platform facilitated smaller and more precise craniotomies, allowing for an easier and more efficient anastomosis.” Blueprint for the Future While these data are preliminary, Dr. Nossek and Dr. Rutledge are excited about the future of the technology and its many potential benefits, including the ability to be used as a tool for trainees to learn the surgical techniques. “For recipient vessel selection, the VR system facilitated the selection of the best potential donor and recipient, which might improve patency in larger-scale studies,” Dr. Nossek says. “From an educational perspective, it may be a useful tool for trainees to understand the vascular anatomy and relationships between potential donors and potential recipients.” Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis Surface EMG showing co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. A Multi-Tiered Approach Unmasks an Elusive Disorder A woman in her 60s was referred to Kiril Kiprovski, MD , a clinical associate professor of neurology, with severe stiffness and spasticity in her lower extremities. Her symptoms had first appeared 6 years earlier, she reported, and all treatments had been ineffective. A spine surgeon had diagnosed the patient with spinal stenosis and performed two decompression surgeries. Later, an orthopedic surgeon had performed tendon lengthening and decompression of the peroneal nerve in the left leg. Still, the woman remained unable to walk more than a few steps without stumbling. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness. She’s excited about being able to do more.” At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Kripovski inspected the patient’s MRIs and saw no significant compression of the spinal cord. A physical exam, however, led the neurologist to suspect stiff-person syndrome (SPS)— a rare, progressive autoimmune disorder that affects 1 to 2 out of every million people The symptoms of SPS arise from the disruption of central nervous system pathways that normally inhibit muscle contractions. “Instead of the agonist muscle contracting and the antagonist relaxing, both muscles are activated at the same time,” Dr. Kiprovski explains. Although the syndrome’s etiology is uncertain, it is usually accompanied by elevated levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies. However, anti-GAD antibodies can also be associated with autoimmune diabetes mellitus. To confirm his clinical impression, Dr. Kripovski ordered bloodwork and performed surface electromyography, both of which showed concerning signs of SPS. After completing the diagnosis, he prescribed clonazepam, a standard treatment. Within weeks, the woman’s mobility increased significantly. In hopes of improving it further, she was recently started on intravenous immunoglobulin, which has been shown to reduce symptoms in some patients. “This woman’s life was terribly limited by her illness,” Dr. Kiprovski says. “She’s excited about being able to do more. Her whole family’s excited about it. And, of course, I’m excited, too.” Ruling Out a Spinal Etiology Preoperative MRIs of the patient’s cervical spine. Because the signs and symptoms of stiff-person syndrome (SPS) overlap with those of several other disorders, diagnosis requires multiple steps. The first is a detailed medical history and physical exam. Examination of pre- and postoperative imaging of the patient’s cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine revealed nothing that would explain the severe impairments to her gait. Testing for Antibodies Results from the patient’s bloodwork. Between 70 to 80 percent of people with SPS have glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies, so the patient’s extremely high levels were suggestive of the disorder. Because such antibodies are also associated with several other autoimmune disorders, however, their presence alone was insufficient for a diagnosis. There is no single test that is dispositive for SPS. Scanning for Telltale Muscle Contractions Readings from the patient’s needle EMG tests. During ankle dorsiflexion and plantar flexion, the patient’s electromyography (EMG) showed co-contraction of agonist and antagonist muscles—a characteristic sign of SPS. Combined with her elevated anti-GAD antibody levels, this finding confirmed the diagnosis. Neuromuscular Medicine, Neurology Kiril Kiprovski, MD, is a clinical associate professor of neurology and director of the Division of Neuromuscular Medicine. Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Research supports that introducing ambulatory services in the U.S. would benefit patients and caregivers. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care New research explores if personal amplification devices improve the quality of patient care and patient experience. Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Diabetes risk may be modifiable through healthy lifestyle habits , and interventions for adults with prediabetes have been shown to be effective. Still, few individuals aged 65 years and older at risk for type 2 diabetes participate in evidence-based programs to reduce their risk. One barrier may be the in-person model for delivering diabetes prevention care, according to geriatric specialists at NYU Langone Health. They are leading an ongoing trial, the BRInging the Diabetes Prevention Program to GEriatric Populations (BRIDGE) study, to assess an alternative, telehealth-based Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) tailored for older adults with prediabetes. “As of 2018, Medicare reimburses for provision of a CDC-approved diabetes prevention program curriculum delivered in-person,” says Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH , a research assistant professor of medicine. “However, in-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “In-person DPPs are usually offered only at hospitals, YMCAs, and health departments, limiting accessibility for older adults.” “Offering an online version could be an innovative way to extend the reach of the DPPs to low-income seniors and other marginalized groups,” says . “Additionally, the online format could reduce the cost for implementing and administering the program.” While some online DPPs are available, many are cost-prohibitive and not tailored to the unique needs of older adults. The BRIDGE Study In addition to comparing the effectiveness of two different strategies for delivering a tailored DPP to older adults with prediabetes, the BRIDGE study is also examining the feasibility of delivering either approach as a primary care integrated program. NYU Langone researchers are recruiting patients and randomizing them to a 12-month DPP either delivered via videoconferencing or traditional, in-person programming. Participants are men and women with prediabetes who are 65 years and older and have a body mass index (BMI) within the overweight or obesity range. The primary outcomes are six-month weight loss (effectiveness) and program participation (feasibility). Based on data from a preliminary pilot study , videoconferencing appears to be a feasible and acceptable way to administer a DPP to older adults, says Dr. Chodosh. “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change…over the 6-week intervention period.” “Providing DPP via videoconferencing resulted in high attendance and participant retention, and we observed a significant weight change of 2.9 percent at a rate of 0.2 to 0.5 kilograms per week over the 6-week intervention period.” Findings of this pilot , led by nutritional epidemiologist Jeannette M. Beasley, PhD, MPH , helped the team to adapt the DPP to meet the individual needs of older adults with prediabetes, including modifications for those with reduced hearing and visual acuity. In the future, the team believes the results of BRIDGE could be used to inform best practices that could potentially reach more than 26 million older adults with prediabetes in hospital, community-based, and rural settings. Informing Policy and Best Practices During the COVID-19 pandemic, some virtual preventive care services were covered by Medicare. Dr. Johnston hopes that positive results from BRIDGE will encourage policymakers to enact permanent reimbursement for virtual DPP services. “Our adapted care model is in keeping with the current CDC-approved DPP curriculum, but it is enhanced for older adults,” Dr. Johnston explains. “We hope this research will inform best practices for the delivery of an engaging and effective program to reduce diabetes risk that is accessible to older adults.” Diabetes, Endocrinology, Nutrition Emily Johnston, PhD, MPH, RDN, is a dietitian, certified diabetes care and education specialist, and research assistant professor of medicine. Her research focuses on nutrition and aging, specifically the development of programs to help healthcare providers optimize the delivery of nutrition and preventive care among older adults. We offer care at three locations in Manhattan. 646-754-7098 Executive physicals at NYU Langone provide convenient annual health examinations tailored to each executive’s medical needs. We offer the highest-quality care to assure privacy and comfort, with limited disruption to your busy schedule. An executive physical may be obtained at one of the following conveniently located facilities in NYU Langone’s network: , in the Financial District; and the , both in Midtown. Our concierge team also coordinates your itinerary at the selected location and sends you an electronic notification of the exam date, location and appointment instruction. We offer three packages, which are discussed with you in detail when speaking with our concierge team. On the day of your exam, when you arrive at your selected appointment location, you are greeted by our executive physical program staff. For your convenience, our on-site concierge escorts you through the facility throughout your visit. You meet with NYU Langone’s board-certified physicians, who perform a comprehensive medical history and physical exam. After your visit, you connect directly with your doctor to discuss your results. At that time, your doctor may refer you for additional testing or appointments. Our concierge team will assist with coordinating any additional appointments. With our integrated electronic medical record system, you can also send secure messages to your doctor, access your personalized medical record, and refill prescriptions To learn more about executive physicals at NYU Langone, please call 646-754-7098. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula Postnatal transthoracic echocardiogram shows a fistula between the base of the LV and CS with associated dilation of the CS, right atrium, and right ventricle. A Rare Congenital Heart Defect Congenital left ventricle (LV) to coronary sinus (CS) fistula is a rare entity that can occur either in isolation or in conjunction with other heart defects. With only six prior case reports in the literature, a carefully planned intervention leveraging advanced catheter techniques and intraprocedural imaging is needed to ensure optimal outcomes. In September 2019, when a young male infant was delivered at term to a 34-year mother, cardiac imaging revealed the congenital LV to CS fistula. In addition to the shunt from the fistula, there was another problem. “The baseline electrocardiogram findings were notable for a Wolff-Parkinson-White pattern,” explains , the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology at NYU Langone Health. “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” “This is the first case report that describes an association of the LV-CS fistula with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.” Postnatally, refractory supraventricular tachycardia consistent with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome required therapy with several anti-arrhythmic drugs. A Very Challenging Procedure After discussions among the care team, it was apparent that surgical intervention posed unacceptable risk, as the high-pressure thin-wall fistulous connection located deep and posteriorly behind the heart would be nearly impossible to access surgically. “We all agreed that a percutaneous approach would be preferable,” notes interventional cardiologist Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory . When signs of high-volume heart failure emerged, Dr. Argilla and his partner, pediatric interventional cardiologist , made the decision to intervene early, but the risks were high. The challenge with infants is their small vessels and heart chambers, which limits the size and manipulation of catheters, adds Dr. Argilla. For this procedure, there was a need to avoid implanting a device that would obstruct future routes to the accessory pathway during a subsequent electrophysiology ablation, performed by Dr. Cecchin. The end result was a marathon catheterization, which involved the surgical team attempting three different approaches to closing the fistula before successfully implanting the device. A Successful Recovery Remarkably, following the successful catheter device closure of the LV to CS fistula on day 12 of life, the patient later underwent successful ablation of the accessory pathway. “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result,” says Dr. Argilla, “Two years later, when we met Max again, he presented as a healthy and energetic toddler.” “This was the most challenging procedure we’ve done—and we’re very happy to report an excellent post-procedural result.” Intracardiac Anatomy Confirmed on MRI Cardiac imaging shows the presence of a fistula from the base of the LV to the right atrium via the CS with an approximately 5:1 shunt. The patient underwent electrophysiologic and cardiac catheterization studies on day 4 of life. The transesophageal electrophysiology study showed a moderate risk accessory pathway with the shortest pre-excited RR interval of 260 ms, antegrade effective refractory period of the accessory pathway of 270 ms, and no inducible atrial fibrillation. Angiography showed an LV to CS fistula. Successful Catheter Device Closure An X-ray showing placement of the 8 mm Amplatzer Vascular Plug II device. The patient underwent device occlusion of the fistulous connection of the CS diverticulum to the LV on day of life 12. Each time a catheter or sheath was advanced across the CS orifice of the fistula, evidence of pre-excitation on the cardiac monitor ECG disappeared. Post-procedure transthoracic echocardiogram showed that the device was well positioned and there was no residual shunt. Successful Radiofrequency Ablation of the Accessory Pathway Electrocardiogram showing delta wave mapping. The patient was noted to have an accessory pathway in the CS diverticulum. Delta wave mapping was performed primarily during sinus rhythm.The earliest atrial electrogram was noted at -26 msec. Successful radiofrequency ablation of the accessory pathway was performed. Michael Argilla, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and director of the Pediatric Catheterization Laboratory. His research interests include congenital heart defects in children and adults. Frank Cecchin, MD, is the Andrall E. Pearson Professor of Pediatric Cardiology, a professor of medicine, and director of the Division of Pediatric Cardiology. His research interests include abnormal arrhythmias and congenital heart defects in children. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions On March 4-6, 2023, NYU Langone Heart’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American College of Cardiology 2023 Scientific Sessions in New Orleans Below are just a few of the notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year ( see the complete list of NYU Langone presenters and events Saturday, March 4 Examining Risk Factors Related to Cardiac Rehabilitation Cessation Among Heart Transplant Recipients Session 1247 : Prevention & Health Promotion – Cardiac Rehabilitation 2 NYU Langone Authors , Medical Director, Heart Transplant Program; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 10:45–11:30 am Sunday, March 5 Building Electronic Tools To Enhance And Reinforce Cardiovascular Recommendations for Heart Failure (BETTER CARE-HF): A Pragmatic, Cluster-randomized Trial Comparing Two Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support Tools Session 406 : Late Breaking Clinical Trials III NYU Langone Author , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone : 9:45–9:55 am Respective & Combined Contributions of Left & Right Ventricular Function for the Development of Heart Failure Symptoms & Relevant Clinical Outcomes: A Study of 10,082 Patients from the CIROC Registry Session 1067 : A Look Ahead – Multimodality Imaging for Prognosis Juan Gaztanaga, MD , Director, Advanced Cardiac Imaging, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island 4:00–4:10 pm Monday, March 6 Findings from The American Heart Association Cardiometabolic Health Strategically Focused Research Network Session 1739 : Prevention and Health Promotion: Diabetes and Cardiometabolic Disease Michael S. Garshick, MD , Assistant Professor, Director of the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, NYU Langone What Do the Cardiogenic Shock Trials Tell Us and How Close Are We to Creating Guidelines in Management? Session 751 : Cardiogenic Shock: Advances, Opportunities, & Controversies , Director, Interventional Cardiology, Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, NYU Langone : 1:34–1:42 pm Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery To determine the risk for heart attack or death following major surgery, cardiac tests are frequently recommended, causing delays and driving up healthcare costs. Now, investigators at NYU Langone Health report that patients’ existing chest CT scans, captured months earlier and for unrelated reasons, can be used to estimate these risks. In their study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology, the researchers report that patients with a greater buildup of calcified plaque as visualized by CT have a higher chance of developing major adverse cardiac events (MACE) following several kinds of surgeries. Additionally, the team explored whether physicians who had no formal training in imaging could identify coronary calcium well enough on these preexisting tests to make accurate predictions and potentially skip additional cardiac testing. “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice.” Robert M. Donnino, MD “Our coronary calcium assessment is easy to use and requires minimal training, and so offers a cost-effective tool that can be implemented in any medical practice,” says study co-senior author and cardiologist Using Existing Imaging to Predict Risk For the study, the researchers accessed data from the electronic health record of 2,650 men and women age 45 and older who had surgery unrelated to the heart between January 2016 and September 2020 at NYU Langone inpatient locations. All the patients whose records were used also had a general CT scan of their chests no more than a year before their surgical operations. Those with death or heart attack during the hospitalization for surgery were then identified. Next, four members of the team who had no formal training in CT interpretation completed a 90-minute training session in which they learned to estimate coronary calcium severity from the imaging. In the pragmatic scoring system used, plaque buildup in each of the three major coronary arteries was rated on a three-point scale ranging from “absent” to “severe.” The scores were then combined to a final grade ranging from 0 to 9. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care.” According to the results, patients with scores from 0 to 2 had a less than 4 percent risk of MACE; those with scores from 3 to 5 had an 8 percent risk; and those with scores from 6 to 9 had a 13 percent risk. In addition, the calcium estimates were consistent among the physicians, suggesting that the rating system was reliable. “Pragmatic approaches to risk stratification before surgery can potentially improve care,” says study co-senior author and interventional cardiologist . “Future studies will need to go beyond prediction to develop new strategies to prevent and treat adverse cardiac events after surgery.” Cardiology, Echocardiography, Cardiac Imaging Robert M. Donnino, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests focus on multi-modality cardiac imaging and the application of cardiac imaging to clinical care. Interventional Cardiology, Cardiology Nathaniel R. Smilowitz, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and a faculty member in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. His research interests include myocardial infarction, coronary artery disease, MINOCA, and microvascular disease. Low-Lipid Disorders: Rare, Yet Revealing, Metabolic Conditions Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO, is a clinician and trial director with a focus on diabetes and lipid disorders. Here, she discusses hypobetalipoproteinemia disorders—conditions with low or absent lipid levels, which impair the normal absorption and transport of fats and fat-soluble vitamins. Working with Mahmood Hussain, PhD, Dr. Bredefeld has helped to create a classification system for these disorders, and advocates for awareness and research through the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. Your lipid disorders research includes low lipid conditions—less recognized than hyperlipidemia, which leads to coronary artery disease. Describe these less common disorders. Dr. Bredefeld: Low-lipid disorders are collectively recognized as familial hypobetalipoproteinemia. They are monogenic, with a number of known genetic mutations that determine the phenotype and disease progression. Recently, Dr. Hussain and I co-authored a consensus guidance that classifies these disorders into two categories. Class II disorders are due to enhanced catabolism of lipoproteins and are typically asymptomatic; in fact, these mutations can be beneficial in preventing cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, class I conditions—including abetalipoproteinemia, hypobetalipoproteinemia, and chylomicron retention disease—are severe. They inhibit the assembly and secretion of lipoproteins, so lipids become trapped in the liver and intestine leading to symptoms of steatosis and fat malabsorption. Without fat-soluble vitamins reaching target tissues, patients often suffer from blindness, peripheral neuropathy, and hemorrhage. Advancing Diagnosis, Treatment and Research How are low-lipid disorders diagnosed and treated in children or adults? These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey. Parents may notice symptoms of fat malabsorption—their babies do better when they restrict fats, such as in breast milk. A pediatric gastroenterologist might order a workup for malabsorption. If a lipid panel is obtained during this evaluation, it clinches the diagnosis. Genetic testing can confirm the diagnosis. Patients require lifelong management with megadoses of fat-soluble vitamins. Additionally, there are important dietary concerns; fats must be restricted to just five—the amount in one large egg—to 15 grams per day. “These are ultra-rare disorders that are usually identified after an arduous diagnostic journey.” Cindy L. Bredefeld, DO You helped launch the Abetalipoproteinemia and Related Disorders Foundation. What is the foundation doing to advance understanding of these disorders? First and foremost, we are engaged in advocacy to increase awareness. There is a general lack of understanding regarding the management of these disorders, particularly among insurance companies. They can be reluctant to cover the cost of these “vitamins”—which can average $800 per month out of pocket—because they’re not seen as the critical treatments they are. Insurers may not understand that a baby could hemorrhage, or that an adult patient could develop severe neuropathy or blindness. We have provided letters of medical support for physicians to submit to insurers. Dr. Hussain, the foundation’s president, is a basic researcher while I’m on the clinical side. We integrate the two and bring patients, caregivers, physicians and researchers together to meet an unmet clinical need for these rare disorders. We have assembled an international forum across seven countries to create an expert consensus around the diagnosis and management of hypobetalipoproteinemia. Are you also involved with research on the other side of lipid disorders, hyperlipidemia? Yes. Some of the research in hypolipidemia is informing our understanding of how to manage hyperlipidemia. Several of the genes implicated in class II hypolipidemia have inspired currently available treatments for disorders on the opposite side of the spectrum, such as familial hypercholesterolemia, but also for patients with coronary artery disease to help reduce their risk of cardiac events. I am the principal investigator for a clinical trial investigating ANPTL3 monoclonal antibody for severe hypertriglyceridemia, a common lipid condition—another example of how research in rarer disorders can benefit the larger patient population. Transferring Insights to More Common Conditions Why do you feel it’s so important to support research and treatment of these rare diseases? As I mentioned, understanding low lipids can directly inform treatment advances for hyperlipidemia, which is highly prevalent. In addition, for patients impacted by hypolipidemia, we’re learning more about the mechanisms of disease and potential treatment pathways. Through the foundation, we’re developing a biobank and patient registry to understand the natural history of these disorders. Another initiative is to discover novel vectors that could more efficiently deliver high-dose vitamins to patients with class I hypolipidemias. These studies could also help inform treatment of other, more commonly seen malabsorption disorders. Cindy Bredefeld, DO, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine and the director of clinical trials within the Division of Endocrinology. Her clinical focus is the diagnosis and management of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, as well as lipid disorders. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation Marlena Habal, MD Patients sensitized to circulating human leukocyte antigen (HLA) in need of a heart transplant face prolonged wait times, an elevated risk of dying while waiting, and they may not be listed at all , a heart failure specialist in NYU Langone Health’s , is engaged in translational research to understand the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients. Her research group has developed a protocol to kill bone marrow plasma cells, including those that secrete HLA-specific IgG antibodies in sensitized patients. The has successfully performed one heart transplant using this protocol, and a patient awaiting a lung transplant will begin treatment in a few weeks. The Demand for Desensitization Dr. Habal, your work is focused primarily on desensitizing heart transplant patients. Is the prevalence of HLA sensitization increasing in these patients? If so, what are the reasons? Dr. Habal: When a heart failure patient is placed on the organ donor list, they may have been rejected many times before at various sites. Our goal is to see if we can get them ready for transplant by treating them with therapies that target the cells making the antibodies that can attack the donor organ. Our research is focused on providing a cellular description of what is happening. “[We are] building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient.” The challenge is these patients are becoming more complex. Many of them have had previous surgeries, which come with blood transfusions. This includes mechanical circulatory support, most commonly left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) Millennials are the first group of adults that have survived complex congenital heart disease and received homografts for repair. That foreign tissue has often been there for 20 or 30 years causing extremely high levels of these antibodies—it’s rare that we can treat these patients. Pregnancy is the most common sensitizing event, and why women are affected disproportionately. If you have a patient who’s had three previous pregnancies, an LVAD, and multiple blood transfusions, suddenly you can get very high levels of HLA antibodies. Immune Response to Foreign Human Leukocyte Antigen Can you briefly describe how the immune response works in HLA sensitization and what is unique about your approach to desensitization? Exposure to foreign HLA can initiate a complex set of immune reactions which results in a short-term “effector response”—driven by B cells and short-lived antibody-secreting cells, the production of long-lived bone marrow plasma cells that sustain antibody secretion over decades, and the establishment of B and T cell memory . As a result, HLA antibodies are either detectable or, in the absence of detectable HLA antibodies, the presence of cellular memory exists. “The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control.” The problem is the immune system is smart; it evolves. The cells that become plasma cells—B cells—will begin multiplying again. This is why we added a second agent, a costimulation blockade, to mitigate this response. How do you test for HLA antibodies? Are there any particular signals that you look for in those assays? HLA antibody detection is most commonly done using the Luminex single antigen bead assay. What I’m interested in is how high the antibody levels are, and this requires a bit more work. As an indirect measure of antibody levels, we work with an immunogeneticist to perform antibody titrations until we determine that the antibodies no longer exist. This helps us gauge how many cycles of desensitization will be needed. Designing and Implementing the Protocol What is the core framework for your desensitization protocol and how do you adapt it for different patients? Therapeutic decision-making must consider the patient’s specific needs. My group is building a platform to better understand the underlying immunobiology so that in the future we can develop a precision protocol for each patient. The core rationale for our protocol is to target not only the plasma cells but also prohibit the B cells from getting out of control. We use a multi-drug regimen to target both arms of the immune response; this has been successful in allowing us to transplant several highly sensitized patients. “Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different ‘layers’ of the immune response.” A transient proteasome inhibitor (multiple myeloma drugs bortezomib or carfilzomib) is used to deplete plasma cells, combined with maintenance costimulation blockade with belatacept—a high-affinity variant of CTLA-4-Ig that limits T cell–B cell crosstalk—to prevent the generation of new antibody-secreting cells. Any closing thoughts about the future of heart transplant and desensitization? As we’ve discussed, drug repurposing holds promise for precision-based desensitization; clinical trials are ongoing of daratumumab and other immunomodulatory therapies. Our strategies will continue to focus on targeting different “layers” of the immune response. Here at NYU Langone, clinicians and scientists work in close collaboration to evaluate each case and develop precision strategies. Through an iterative and integrative approach, we hope to refine our protocols and use these promising tools and treatments to their full potential. Marlena Habal, MD, is a heart failure specialist in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her translational research focuses on understanding the immunological challenges in thoracic transplant and how they can be overcome to desensitize patients and prepare them for transplant. Adolescent Obesity: Weight Loss and Bariatric Surgery , a board-certified pediatric surgeon who specializes in bariatric surgery, discusses the role of surgery in adolescents with obesity—a highly prevalent condition that has more than tripled in the past three decades. In the wake of the pandemic, anxiety and stress have also hindered efforts to address obesity. Working with a multidisciplinary team, Dr. Tashiro gives teens the tools they need to achieve and maintain a healthy weight through the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program, where he serves as surgical director Impact of the Pandemic on Obesity Trends How has the COVID-19 pandemic affected weight management and care of adolescents with obesity? Dr. Tashiro: According to a recent study from the CDC , the rate of increase in children and teens’ body mass index (BMI) approximately doubled in 2020—obesity was an epidemic already, but the pandemic has made it much worse. With schools closed and gym classes cancelled, kids lost their normal routine. Although this was necessary for public health, we don’t talk enough about the importance of a structured school day for children—their entire world involves interacting with friends, and if you take that away, and only put them in front of a screen, it’s not the same. Weight Management Care for Youth The Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at NYU Langone provides a care experience with unique benefits to young patients. Can you tell us more about it? There are many weight loss programs available to patients, but most surgical procedures are not performed by pediatric surgeons subspecialized in bariatric surgery. , all of our pediatric patients receive specialized care from initial consultation through to treatment and follow-up. We employ a multidisciplinary care team, including pediatric obesity medical specialists, nutritionists, psychologists, social workers, and subspecialized pediatric surgeons. We ensure that our patients are treated as teenagers—15-year-olds should not be talked to and treated the same way as adults. A children’s hospital can offer a unique care experience for teens. Our program is accredited by the Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Accreditation and Quality Improvement Program as a comprehensive center providing high-quality, patient-centered care. The Proven Benefits of Surgery There is accumulating evidence suggesting that bariatric surgery is safe and beneficial for teens with obesity. Have you published any recent research on this topic? We recently published the results of a retrospective analysis evaluating the impact of parental history of bariatric surgery , as well as age at time of operation, on adolescents who underwent laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Interestingly, when all patients were compared by age at operation, either over the age of 16 or under, there were few differences in outcomes. Our results showed that patient age should not be a barrier to weight loss surgery, especially among patients with a parental history of obesity. By intervening at a younger age, the long-term metabolic effects of obesity may be reduced. Giving Surgery Careful Thought What are your considerations when counseling patients about potential weight loss surgery? Achieving a healthy weight can be challenging, especially for young people who have experienced significant weight gain that is affecting their physical and mental health. All teens in our program start with medical weight loss interventions. If those efforts prove unsuccessful, we may recommend surgery. This process starts with an evaluation by a psychologist, who determines if the teen is fit for the procedure. We want to ensure the teen fully understands how it will impact their life and is committed to making lifelong changes to maintain weight loss. We provide gastric sleeve surgery, also known as sleeve gastrectomy, for teens aged 13 to 17 who have a BMI of 40 or higher, or a BMI of 35 or higher and at least one accompanying risk factor, such as diabetes. This procedure reduces the size of the stomach, which helps teens eat less and feel full faster. Research shows that bariatric surgery helps teenagers lower their BMI and reverse or significantly reduce their risk of type 2 diabetes and heart disease. By reducing the risk of these obesity-related disorders earlier in life, surgical treatment can help prevent illness in teens and lead to better health as adults. Reaching More Patients What are your future plans for program expansion? We plan to expand our coverage area for outpatient visits to include more of the New York metropolitan area as it’s easier for patients if they don’t have to travel so far. We also plan to provide educational materials for all pediatricians in the tri-state area. Many pediatricians don’t know bariatric surgery is a safe and effective option for adolescents with obesity. Jun Tashiro, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of surgery and surgical director of the Adolescent Healthy Weight Program at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. He specializes in performing minimally invasive bariatric surgery in children and adolescents with obesity. Amplifying the Impact of Nuclear Cardiology Beyond Obstructive Coronary Artery Disease Nuclear cardiologist , is medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology and director of nuclear cardiology at NYU Langone Health. In January 2024, Dr. Phillips stepped into the role of president of the American Society of Nuclear Cardiology (ASNC), bringing with him a wealth of leadership experience from his more than 15 years at NYU Langone. Here, Dr. Phillips shares his goals as president—with a top priority being equitable access to imaging education—and looks ahead as expanding applications, hybrid techniques, and artificial intelligence (AI) create shifting landscapes in the field. Drawn to the Field Congratulations on your new position leading the ASNC. Reflecting on your training, what drew you to the field and prepared you for this role? Dr. Phillips: When I was doing my cardiology fellowship, I was attracted to nuclear cardiology for its unique role in patient evaluation and management. At that time, the major way to look for ischemic heart disease using a noninvasive approach was nuclear stress testing. Nuclear stress tests are one of the most common diagnostic tests performed in the United States, especially as people mature in years. As I realized the importance of the interplay between diagnosis, treatment, and imaging, over time I began to focus more on nuclear cardiology. Then, when I joined NYU Langone in 2008, the mentorship I received as an early career attending was foundational in getting me even more involved in the field. NYU Langone has a long history of leadership in imaging, including multiple areas of cardiac imaging, with a former director of nuclear cardiology, Dr. Jennifer Mieres, having served as the national president of ASNC in 2009. I’ve been lucky to be very supported over these last 15 years and to have this current opportunity as president. New Paradigm of Imaging Education What do you see as the key objectives for the organization during your term? The ASNC is made up of cardiologists at every level of experience, from trainees in cardiovascular disease to physicians who have been in practice for many years. Although they are a diverse group, one key commonality is that all nuclear cardiology clinicians are still learning. One of the most exciting parts of focusing on nuclear cardiology today is the rapidly expanding knowledge and techniques in the field. We want every specialist in nuclear cardiology to be able to learn the latest skills and learn them in a way that can readily be translated into patient care. So one of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum. “One of my major priorities is changing the paradigm of imaging education. To accomplish this, we want to build a cloud-based, hands-on imaging curriculum.” We know that a trainee in one program might not have the same imaging education opportunities as someone in a similar program elsewhere in the country. Our goal is to help raise the bar for all trainees by providing resources that can be integrated into any training program in the country. What this allows us to do is make sure we have a standard where everyone is looking at an image in the same way—that translates into optimization of patient-centric clinical care. This will also be helpful in continuing education. Nuclear cardiology techniques and procedures are exploding, and we’re seeing new disease states where nuclear cardiology is going to be key in diagnosis and treatment. For patient care, we want to make sure that the physicians already involved in nuclear cardiology have the opportunities to learn new skills, imaging techniques, and lab modernization. Strategic Plan for Artificial Intelligence What is your vision for the role of AI in nuclear cardiology? AI is a tremendously hot topic. One of the first initiatives that I launched at the beginning of this year was the creation of a task force on AI and machine learning and their impact in nuclear cardiology. When considering AI in imaging specifically, we’ve learned that with focused attention we can significantly improve the ability of AI to detect small details in an image and assist with diagnoses. But the new wave will be using AI to better determine how a test result can impact patient care. The ability to utilize the large volume of data available in a patient’s electronic medical record as well as the pixel-level data of cardiac imaging is going to open up knowledge that has not existed previously. With thoughtful investment in AI technologies, I’m confident we’ll expand our ability to offer high-quality care. Over the next year, my goal for the task force is to create a strategic plan for how we move forward in nuclear cardiology using the power of AI and machine learning. Expanding the Impact Can you tell us more about how nuclear cardiology techniques are expanding into other disease states? What we’ve found through a lot of research, including research by colleagues here at NYU Langone, is that for many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease, and that nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis. “For many patients, chest pain is caused by conditions such as microvascular disease. Nuclear cardiology can be key to making this diagnosis.” Another disease state where we’re seeing tremendous diagnostic progress utilizing nuclear cardiology is in the evaluation of cardiac amyloidosis. Years ago, this disease was thought to be much rarer, but thanks to the application of nuclear cardiology techniques, diagnoses have increased tremendously—including here at NYU Langone, where we have a dedicated Amyloidosis Program Similarly, our management of sarcoidosis has seen significant growth, with nuclear cardiology playing a key role both in diagnosis and monitoring response to treatment. Finally, there’s been notable progress in the evaluation of cardiac infections, such as endocarditis, and the ability to use nuclear techniques to make a diagnosis where it might otherwise be unclear. Emergence of Hybrid Techniques How do you see the role of nuclear cardiology expanding over the next 5 to 10 years? As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role. As we look to the future, I think we’re going to see multimodality imaging techniques grow, with nuclear cardiology playing a major role.” We’re seeing a lot of focus on hybrid imaging already. One of the areas of greatest progress is in the evaluation of coronary calcium while at the same time looking at nuclear perfusion. When you combine the two techniques, it provides an extremely informative window into a patient’s disease state, with simultaneous functional and anatomic data. I’m excited to see other hybrid approaches be developed. Lawrence Phillips, MD, is the medical director of outpatient clinical cardiology, director of nuclear cardiology, and assistant clinical director for strategic affairs in the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. A comprehensive cardiologist, he treats patients across the heart disease spectrum, including early prevention, ischemic heart disease, arrhythmias, and valve disease. His research focuses on using cardiac imaging for diagnosing heart disease and monitoring response to tailored therapies. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Imaging showing placement of the implanted valve. TAVR Expertise Treats a High-Risk Pregnancy A woman’s advanced aortic stenosis detected during pregnancy was successfully treated with transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) by specialists at NYU Langone Health. The maternal-fetal medicine team, led by , a nationally renowned expert in high-risk pregnancies, quickly identified the case to be more severe than initially described at referral, permitting time for a well-planned second-trimester procedure. “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR. It was pretty magic.” “It was remarkable from my perspective as an obstetrician to see how quickly she responded to the TAVR,” says Dr. Roman. “It was pretty magic.” Aortic stenosis is one of the more feared cardiac abnormalities during pregnancy, notes Dr. Roman. The impairment makes it difficult for the body to adjust to the increases in heart rate and blood volume necessary to support a growing fetus. With these changes largely occurring in the last three months of pregnancy, timing TAVR for the second trimester helped minimize the risk of the mother experiencing cardiac failure. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option compared to surgery.” Dual-trained in cardiac surgery and interventional cardiology, , performed the TAVR. Despite the unique case, he emphasizes the straightforward nature of the procedure itself due to his team’s extensive experience with advanced transcatheter technology. “While TAVR during pregnancy has not yet been studied, we weighed the risk and benefits with mom and offered the procedure as a lower-risk option to fetus and mom compared to surgery,” says Dr. Williams. Exercise Intolerance: An Early Warning Sign Chest CT angiography revealing the patient’s advanced aortic stenosis. A 38-year-old pregnant female was referred to maternal-fetal medicine specialists at NYU Langone for care of her critical aortic stenosis. Born with a bicuspid aortic valve and asymptomatic throughout her life, the patient experienced exercise intolerance early during pregnancy. TAVR at 21 Weeks The patient’s multidisciplinary care team offered TAVR as a lower-risk alternative to open heart surgery. The procedure was performed while the patient was 21 weeks pregnant, with local anesthesia and minimal radiation to the fetus, and the patient was discharged the following day. A Healthy Mom and Newborn The patient and newborn following delivery. PHOTO: Bella Baby Photography While not required, the patient elected for cesarean delivery, with a team in place monitoring her heart condition. The patient recovered well from the birth, and she and the baby were discharged without any complications. Ashley S. Roman, MD, is the Silverman Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, vice chair for clinical affairs—obstetrics and gynecology, and service chief of obstetrics. Her research interests include biomarkers for preterm birth and the impact of omega-3 fatty acids on pregnancy outcomes. Cardiac Surgery, Interventional Cardiology Mathew R. Williams, MD, is an associate professor of cardiothoracic surgery, director of the Heart Valve Center, chief of the Division of Adult Cardiac Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital, and co-director of NYU Langone Heart. He specializes in the treatment of heart valve disease using minimally invasive procedures and advanced transcatheter approaches. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons join international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–13. AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation New AI-driven QTc algorithm could generate clinically useful estimations. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management Experts at NYU Langone Health play a key role in the landmark ISCHEMIA-EXTEND trial. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony The small, self-contained devices are having a transformational effect on the lives of patients with complex arrhythmias. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD Surgical team takes a unique approach for a patient with transposition of the great arteries. Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Holistic care from a dedicated center benefits all patients—including those who have failed prior treatment. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery A renowned leader advances excellence and innovation in his field. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation Infertility specialist Dr. James Grifo discusses advances in elective egg freezing and practices for holistic care. Teaching Endocrinology to Future Generations , an assistant professor of medicine and medical director of NYU Langone Diabetes and Endocrine Associates, dedicates a large part of her career to education. As content director for NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s endocrine module, she is helping to design new training initiatives that adopt innovative materials, a more case-based model, and stronger connections between lectures and clinical rotations. Here, Dr. Sum expands upon these experiences and her view that advancing education in the pathophysiology of endocrine and metabolic disease—even for those not specializing in the field—is critical to better management of these complex disorders. Drilling Home the Basics Dr. Sum, in your role as content director for the preclinical endocrine module, what are your main learning directives for students? Dr. Sum: Our biggest focus is to provide first-year medical students with foundational knowledge in physiology and an early introduction to the pathophysiology of the endocrine disorders and metabolic diseases they are going to encounter. Additionally, we’re working to add more focus on prevention. “We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular.” We’ve also undergone significant restructuring to adopt interactive, peer-to-peer, symptom-based learning. This is part of a school-wide initiative to shift away from lectures focused on isolated organs and systems. We prompt students with how a patient would present in clinic with symptoms like fatigue and weight gain rather than known problems like “thyroid disorder.” Then they create differential diagnoses using critical thinking across the organ systems and propose workups to identify the diagnosis, and we discuss pathophysiology and treatment. One of the new training materials you’ve helped develop is virtual flashcards. Tell us about their origin and success We created and piloted virtual pharmacologic flashcards as part of the pivot toward virtual learning in 2020. They ended up becoming quite popular, and we now use them across all the different modules, using even more sophisticated software. The goal was to enhance the pharmacologic information that our students have access to, with flashcards serving as a mode to deliver spaced repetition learning. The flashcards have details regarding mechanism of action, indication for usage, and common side effects. Some flashcards also feature illustrations for visualizing the mechanism of action. Templates as a Guide You’ve helped create templates that assist students as they navigate some of their first patient visits. Can you tell us more about their design and how they can be used? The goal is for medical students or residents to use these templates to enhance their toolbox as they join in on the endocrine clinical rotations. This time is very learning intensive with direct patient interaction. These learners are synthesizing all the knowledge they’ve learned during our course or during their own medical school course as they’re meeting with patients and figuring out the diagnoses and treatment plans. For a seasoned physician, this comes naturally because of honed knowledge on questions to ask and internalized illness scripts. For someone in the learning phase, they have all the foundational information, but it still needs to be put into neat categories for them to make sense of the patient case in front of them. “Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders.” To assist with the categorization of information, I created templates tackling the most common endocrine disorders that learners will encounter both on the inpatient and outpatient side, such as diabetes and thyroid disorders. That way, when meeting with a patient with diabetes, for example, the learner is armed with the right questions to ask from the onset to later synthesize the correct diagnosis—whether it is type 1, type 2, or medication-induced diabetes—and then to develop a targeted and comprehensive treatment plan. You mentioned you are researching their effectiveness. Yes, this is an IRB-approved project. We are giving templates to a subset of learners and, through surveys given after the endocrine rotation, we’ll evaluate whether the templates helped learners better understand and integrate the workup and diagnosis of endocrine disorders. Signs of Success How has the feedback you’ve received so far informed your educational vision? The feedback is typically very positive. Students really enjoy learning endocrinology, which is what I hope to inspire. Regardless of the field they go into, everyone’s going to see patients with endocrine disorders. For common disorders like diabetes and obesity, it’s important for anyone within the healthcare field to know the basics of treatment and prevention. But even for uncommon disorders, like acromegaly and endogenous Cushing syndrome, these patients can present to doctors in almost any specialty, and the diseases can sometimes be insidious in onset and hard to diagnose. Recently, a medical student told me that she helped diagnose an acquaintance with acromegaly after learning about it in our endocrine course! It was extremely gratifying to see our students helping patients so early in their training. Working with AI You’re interested in artificial intelligence (AI) applications for medical education and endocrine training in particular. Where are you at in exploring the emerging technologies? AI is certainly poised to change the course of work in medicine and education. NYU Langone is already positioned as a leading institution for advancing AI technologies, including being one of the few—if not the only—top academic medical centers with its own dedicated, HIPAA-compliant instance of ChatGPT. Within the medical school, we recently held a lengthy brainstorming session about the use of AI in medical education and how it could be helpful in organizing vast troves of information and creating content—both for learners and educators. We’re now actively planning how to use these new tools with such a big capacity for information delivery into our modules, starting with basics such as generation of more practice questions, and beyond. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update Dr. Valerie Peck, MD, discusses the current state of research on bisphosphonate use and AFFs. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment New research and provider education could avoid harmful delays in management. Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy An expert in transgender endocrinology discusses the state of research and the clinical needs of diverse patients. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars An enhanced approach builds on the benefits of transoral surgery. RFA Emerges as New Tool For Thyroid Tumors Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Discovery shows how lipid accumulation may fuel eruptive xanthomas, other cutaneous conditions. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures Retrospective review finds similar risk of postoperative complications in patients treated before or after 24 hours. New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays The simple method safely reduces overall radiographic imaging for suspected fractures without missing any injuries. Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs Patients report better functional outcomes with a primary biceps tenodesis than with a secondary revision after a failed SLAP repair. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in San Francisco February 12–16, 2024, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Untangling Mechanisms of Diabetes & Cardiovascular Disease Risk , the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism , have been collaborating over the past several years to study macrovascular disease in diabetes. Now, with new funding from the NIH, their research focus is expanding. Here, Dr. Goldberg discusses how the funding will be used to assess whether LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) reduction corrects platelet, white blood cell, and endothelial cell abnormalities associated with type 1 diabetes, and ascertain whether these changes parallel those found with type 2 diabetes. He also highlights their interim findings, emphasizing multidisciplinary collaboration as a key driver of long-term success. Building Upon Previous Knowledge Dr. Goldberg, tell us about your work with Dr. Berger and how the new funding is allowing you to expand this focus. Dr. Goldberg: Three years ago, Dr. Berger and I received funding from the American Heart Association for the Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Type 2 Diabetes (CHORD) trial . In this study, we’re investigating risk factors for heart disease and stroke, including platelet activity, inflammation, and blood vessel wall function in patients with type 2 diabetes and elevated LDL-C, and how these measurements are impacted when LDL-C is reduced by about 75 percent. With our new funding, we’ve launched a follow-up trial, Cholesterol Lowering and Residual Risk in Diabetes, Type 1 (CHORD1) , which is a prospective, interventional, cohort study that will be carried out at five sites within the New York City area. The purpose of the study is to analyze the effect of reducing cholesterol levels on the same risk factors as outlined in CHORD, but for patients with type 1 diabetes. We plan to compare the results of both studies. “In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes.” In addition to providing critical insights into the macrovascular complications of diabetes, both studies will help us better understand the relationship between LDL-C reduction and vascular disease in patients with diabetes. Convincing Early Research What early research led to the initiation of CHORD and CHORD1? Studies have shown that marked reductions in non-HDL cholesterol (HDL-C), and to a lesser extent triglycerides, associate with plaque regression. While observational data has linked HDL-C and triglycerides to risk of cardiovascular disease, such studies have a limited role in elucidating the causal risk conferred by these lipid fractions because of confounding by correlated metabolic syndrome traits. Our earlier findings show that LDL-C, HDL-C, and triglycerides are independently associated with coronary artery disease, suggesting that each of these factors are biologically active at the level of the arterial wall. Patients with diabetes have greater platelet aggregation, altered white blood cells, and more vascular inflammation—pathological processes that are improved by LDL-C reduction in unaffected individuals. Research into ApoB-Lp You’re also involved in a new project investigating apolipoprotein-B–containing lipoprotein (apoB-Lp) biogenesis and catabolism. Tell us about this work. This program project award, led by Mahmood Hussain, PhD , will explore how changes in adipose tissue lipolysis, liver assembly of apoB-Lp, and plasma clearance of lipids affect circulating levels of atherogenic apoB-Lp. My project will develop methods to block lipid movement out of the circulation and into the arterial wall where it can cause atherosclerosis. We have received five years of funding for this project from the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Drawing on a Well of Expertise You’ve led several multidisciplinary clinical trials. How does collaboration play a role in your research productivity and success? NYU Langone has a strong history and well of expertise that’s relevant to endocrinology and lipid disorders. By collaborating with other investigators, I’ve been able to foster relationships with experts that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with diverse perspectives and different areas of research. Ultimately, I believe that this has been a major reason for our success. Endocrinology, Lipid Disorders Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression Pandemic-related mental health issues in healthcare workers were detected by applying AI to teletherapy transcripts. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Renowned ADHD expert Dr. Lenard Adler details the latest evidence-based assessments and interventions for adults. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health psychiatrists joined international colleagues in San Francisco, May 20–24. We have several convenient locations across Manhattan. NYU Langone’s general pediatric care team offers several convenient locations across Manhattan to provide the best treatment possible for children, whether they live Uptown, Downtown, or somewhere in between. Our team of pediatric experts provide both well and sick visits, immunizations, annual examinations, and more. Together, we aim to partner with you to discuss everything from your child’s growth and developmental milestones to behavioral and emotional progress, nutritional needs, and more so that you can feel confident in the care your child receives. Our pediatric care teams offer services for children from birth through age 18 across Manhattan and are available across a wide variety of days and hours to best meet your and your child’s needs. , we have direct access to pediatric experts who can provide specialized care for your child, if needed. Come see our providers in the Financial District at , in Greenwich Village at , and on the Upper East Side at Our pediatric experts provide the best care possible for children with conditions ranging from minor to more complex illnesses. Andrea Brescia Pediatrician Bruce Brovender Michaela B. Domaratzky Genevieve Ferrier Eric P. Gibbs Niloufar Gidfar Lisa Hughes Robin S. Jacobson Christine Lambiris Joseph C. Licata Debra Mesnick Palmo Pasquariello Vicki M. Porges Camille Senzamici Ayala Wegman Anna Zhivotovsky National Research Push Targets Progression to Psoriatic Arthritis NYU Langone Health-led trial is key component of research evaluating preventive intervention, biomarkers. Jose U. Scher, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Of the estimated 3 percent of the United States population with psoriasis, roughly 25 percent will develop psoriatic arthritis, with psoriasis of the nails or scalp disproportionately increasing the associated risk. The link between the two conditions has given researchers at NYU Langone Health a unique opportunity to study pre-clinical disease with a specific biomarker that could clarify how the inflammatory process progresses from skin to joints. “We can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis … But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” “In patients with latent disease, we can’t turn the clock back once they progress to psoriatic arthritis, and our available medications all have limitations,” says . “But we might be able to slow or stop progression to psoriatic arthritis through early treatment.” Dr. Scher and colleagues are leading a major multicenter study, Preventing Arthritis in a Multicenter Psoriasis At-Risk Population (PAMPA) , that has been years in the making. The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis or other risk factors, such as a first-degree relative with psoriatic arthritis. “We are focusing on the earliest treatment phase, before patients even develop joint pain,” says Rebecca Haberman, MD , the trial’s associate lead. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” The study, conducted in collaboration with Janssen Pharmaceuticals, will test if a prolonged and unresolved skin inflammation, coupled with entheseal and synovial abnormalities detected via musculoskeletal ultrasound, will increase the risk for a transition to psoriatic arthritis. Comparing Rates of Progression In one arm, 100 at-risk patients will receive a subcutaneous injection of the drug guselkumab for 24 months. In a second arm, another 100 patients will be similarly randomized and begin the intervention or placebo after a 6-month delay. In a third arm of 150 patients who don’t wish to be treated, the researchers will use the non-biologic standard of care as a negative control. “We’ll compare the rate of progression between those who are treated and those who are not treated,” Dr. Scher says. Another primary endpoint will test whether the intervention improves subclinical inflammation within the first six months, as seen on ultrasound. In addition, the trial may reveal key biomarkers of progression, including whether the skin and gut microbiome, circulating immune cells, and molecules such as cytokines help predict progression from predominantly skin to joint inflammation. Even if early intervention does not prevent outright progression from psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis, it might help attenuate the severity of disease. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” “It may very well be that this is not the right drug to prevent progression,” Dr. Scher says. “But by looking at biomarkers, any implicated immune and environmental pathways might point toward cells or molecules that could be targeted in subsequent prevention efforts.” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics The PAMPA prevention trial is being complemented by a larger National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded program—the Accelerating Medicines Partnership (AMP) Recently, AMP expanded its project on autoimmune disorders to include psoriatic disease as a major focal point. The public-private partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and other participating centers in the PAMPA study with the NIH and pharmaceutical companies to speed the development of better therapeutic options. Part of the program’s focus will be on understanding the mechanics of disease progression, using data from the natural history of disease similar to the third arm of the PAMPA trial. In addition to tracking biomarkers such as potential changes in the microbiome and circulating immune cells, participants will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints to produce and promote inflammation.” Beyond identifying which patients progress, the larger research effort may clarify how the disease migrates and responds to therapy. “Is there anything in the tissue that tells us whether some person will respond to medication X and not to medication Y, or vice versa?” Dr. Scher says. “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Rebecca Haberman, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine and assistant director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center. Her research and clinical interests include rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Insights into an inflammatory condition’s root cause leads experts toward new models of care. A growing body of knowledge is emerging through research at NYU Langone Health around VEXAS syndrome, a constellation of inflammatory symptoms whose origin was, until recently, a medical mystery. The condition primarily impacts men over age 50 and carries a high mortality rate. , an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics , was a member of a large research collaborative that first characterized the condition —and its link to somatic mutations in the gene UBA1 —by studying a cohort of patients with undiagnosed, multisystem inflammatory conditions referred to the NIH. With his team’s latest study estimating VEXAS syndrome to be more common than previously thought , the group’s ongoing efforts are focused on identifying at-risk groups and strategies for diagnosis and treatment. “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions.” “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions; now it must be considered in differential diagnosis of patients who exhibit symptoms,” says Dr. Beck. Diagnosing the Undiagnosed Revealed within the newly identified syndrome’s name are its associated characteristics—vacuoles in blood cells, the E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic. With symptoms ranging from high fevers and joint pain to vasculitis and dermatitis, it is typically misdiagnosed as other rheumatologic or hematologic conditions until standard treatment for those conditions fails to elicit durable improvement. “We now understand that diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome involves pinpointing a set of hallmark features—including elevated inflammatory markers and low blood counts or anemia—within a spectrum of symptoms,” Dr. Beck says. Quantifying the Prevalence To estimate the prevalence of pathogenic variants in the general population, Dr. Beck and his team analyzed the electronic health records of 163,096 primarily White men and women over the age of 50 within the Geisinger Health System who agreed to have their blood screened for signs of genetic disease. Of those screened, 9 male and 2 female individuals were found to harbor somatic variants associated with VEXAS syndrome, which correlates to 1 in 4,269 American men and 1 in 26,238 women over 50 likely to have or develop the syndrome. Every patient genetically identified also had a clinical manifestation of the syndrome. Building a New Care Model Addressing the wide-ranging symptomatology observed in VEXAS syndrome demands a multidisciplinary approach involving rheumatologists, hematologists, pulmonologists, dermatologists, and other specialists. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition.” In more severe cases, the condition can cause recalcitrant thrombocytopenia and anemia in the setting of myelodysplastic syndrome, effectively a progressive bone marrow failure requiring transplant. To contain inflammation, high-dose steroids, JAK inhibitors, and other immunosuppressants can be helpful—though those treatment options are limited in their efficacy and durability. Often, patients need to cycle through multiple medication regimens and are unable to taper from high doses of steroids without symptom recurrence. Aligning Clinical Resources and Research Dr. Beck and rheumatology colleague , are now working to establish a referral center and a multispecialty clinic model for comprehensive care, where they can test new therapies that target the condition’s genetic basis and its associated pathways. Their research priorities include pinpointing populations at greater risk for VEXAS syndrome, searching for additional genetic associations, and better understanding treatment responses, which Dr. Beck says becomes increasingly important as awareness of the disease increases. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition,” says Dr. Ho. “The more patients referred to us, the more we hone the necessary expertise to manage their symptoms with comprehensive care.” Clinical Genetics, Rheumatology David B. Beck, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics. He runs the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program and specializes in the genetics of autoinflammatory conditions. Gary H. Ho, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine. His research interests include VEXAS syndrome, enteropathic arthritis, and gout. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health New CDC-funded research will examine comorbidities, disparities, quality of life, and home testing options. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease Under new NIH grants, a renowned research and clinical program seeks new insights into Behçet’s and related diseases. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting NYU Langone Health rheumatologists joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–14. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Laryngeal diseases are commonly divided into two mutually-exclusive diagnostic categories: mucosal injury or neuromuscular/functional disorders. Yet this distinction does not account for potential interactions between tissue types, as occurs in other organ systems. Until recently, no such relationship had been described in the vocal folds. Recently, NYU Langone Health researchers published the first-ever study of interactions between cells from the vocal fold mucosal and underlying muscle in Annals of Otology, Rhinology and Laryngology Ryan C. Branski, PhD , the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, the team included Ryosuke Nakamura, PhD, an associate research scientist in the Department of Rehabilitation, and , associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. The researchers used tissue from rats, culturing mucosal fibroblasts and thyroarytenoid myoblasts in vitro “The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable. We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable,” Dr. Branski explains. “We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” Seeking Clues from Lower Airway Disorders The team investigated whether a phenomenon known to occur in the lower airway might apply to the vocal folds as well: interactions between mucosal and muscular tissue. In asthma, for example, increased contractile properties of airway smooth muscle are considered a hallmark of the disease, together with mucosal inflammation. This combination of pathologies appears to be related to altered expression of contractile proteins—particularly, myosin light-chain phosphorylation—within airway smooth muscle. Downstream, overexpression of fast myosin heavy chain isoforms in airway smooth muscle enhances intracellular calcium signaling, Dr. Branski explains. Overexpression of calcium-sensing receptor, in turn, further exacerbates the abnormal cascade of mucosal-muscle signaling in asthma. A Surprising Reciprocity Dr. Branski and his colleagues hypothesized that injury to the vocal folds elicits similarly complex interactions between the vocal fold lamina propria and the underlying muscle. “As a first step to test this idea, we sought to investigate the effects of vocal fold fibroblasts on myoblasts,” he says. “Interestingly, however, our data show significant bidirectional effects between cell types.” “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being. Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The researchers analyzed fibroblast proliferation and migration in the presence of myoblast-conditioned growth media, using TGF-beta and other substances to induce the myofibroblastic phenotype. After 24 hours, they analyzed phenotypic shifts and cellular differentiation. Generally, the myoblasts favorably impacted fibroblasts (for example, decreasing Acta2 mRNA expression), while the effects of fibroblasts on myoblasts were unfavorable (for example, decreasing myosin heavy chain expression). “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being,” Dr. Branski observes. “Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The potential implications of these interactions warrant further investigation, he stresses. Ultimately, such research could lead to better treatment strategies—whether pharmacological, surgical, or behavioral—for a wide range of vocal fold disorders. Ryan C. Branski, PhD, is the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, vice-chair of research in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His research interests focus on therapeutic approaches for diseases of the upper aerodigestive tract that manifest as speech, voice, and swallowing disorders. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong First image of Howard Rusk, MD, provided by the State Historical Society of Missouri. Since its founding in 1948, NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation has focused on providing patients with high-quality, innovative rehabilitation care and the recovery resources they need to lead full and rewarding lives. To quote Howard A. Rusk, M.D., widely considered the father of rehabilitation medicine and our program’s namesake: “To believe in rehabilitation is to believe in humanity.” Rusk’s very simple philosophy – that physical medicine and rehabilitation should involve the whole person – has driven Rusk Rehabilitation’s remarkable growth over the last 75 years. Today, our internationally recognized programs cover the full spectrum of rehabilitative services and our experts continue to be leaders in research and education, as well as clinical care. Celebrating Our 75th Anniversary Join us in New York City as we celebrate this important milestone in our history! Our one-day celebratory event will include a research symposium and reception, presentation of awards including the Rusk Award for Leadership and Innovation in PM&R, and a variety of other social and professional networking opportunities. September 22, 2023; 10 am–7 pm NYU Langone Science Building 435 E. 30th Street 1st Floor Room 1-03 To Register To register, visit this link Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 1) In a study, 21 adult patients participated in a neurorehabilitation program that included serial Coma Recovery Scale-Revised (CRS-R) assessments and access to brain injury specialists. Interventions included multimodal sensory stimulation therapies and neurostimulant medications. Researchers compared clinical features of patients who did and did not recover to the minimally conscious state (MCS) or better, defined as a CRS-R total score (TS) greater than or equal to 8, before discharge. The team also examined factors associated with best CRS-R TS, last CRS-R TS, and time on mechanical ventilation. ADAPTED FROM: Neurocritical Care , 2021 Oct 5;1-15. Study findings showed that patients had CRS-R assessments a median of 6 times before discharge, beginning a median of 48 days from admission, and 12 patients (57 percent) recovered to minimally conscious (MCS) before discharge, after a median of 8 days off continuous sedation. Recovered patients had lower body mass index (BMI), lower C-reactive protein levels, higher arterial pressures, and earlier fentanyl discontinuation. CRS-R scores fluctuated over time, and the best CRS-R TS was higher than the last CRS-R TS (median 8 versus 5). Earlier fentanyl and neuromuscular blockage discontinuation correlated with a higher last CRS-R TS. ADAPTED FROM: Study researchers conclude that early neurorehabilitation of patients with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19 can be accomplished in the intensive care unit (ICU). Hypoxia, systemic inflammation, sedation, and neuromuscular blockade may impact diagnostic assessment and prognosis. Consciousness fluctuations make serial assessments essential. Further research should investigate longer-term neurologic recovery and benefits of early rehabilitation. ADAPTED FROM: Early neurorehabilitation improves outcomes in patients with disorders of consciousness (DoC) after brain injury, but its applicability in COVID-19 is unknown. In a researchers led by Lindsey J. Gurin, MD , director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, found that such an approach could benefit these patients as well. “The results were encouraging. Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge.” During New York City’s initial pandemic surge, from March through May 2020, the team developed and implemented an early neurorehabilitation protocol for patients in the intensive care unit at NYU Langone Health with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19. “The results were encouraging,” says Dr. Gurin. “Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge, achieving a clinical benchmark known to have relatively favorable long-term prognostic implications in DoC.”  “Fortunately, we had already developed a similar program for DoC patients of other etiologies,” notes coauthor Brian S. Im, MD, former director of the Brain Injury Rehabilitation Program. “We were able to adapt existing infrastructure to an unprecedented situation.” Neurology, Psychiatry, Rehabilitation Lindsey J. Gurin, MD, is director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, and an assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, psychiatry, and neurology. Her research and clinical interests center on brain injury, dementia, Alzheimer’s, and behavioral disorders. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired Inexpensive wearables and cloud-based services could transform guidance support worldwide. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Research will clarify swallowing problems resulting from anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 NYU Langone Health is mobilizing to oversee the NIH’s multi-site, multi-year RECOVER initiative. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” In June 2021, a multi-institutional team led by , an associate professor of rehabilitation medicine, published a white paper on the role of physiatry in COVID-19 inpatient rehabilitation in the journal PM&R Commissioned by the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, the paper advised on topics including pandemic-related changes in care delivery; health and safety of providers and patients; training requirements for physiatrists redeployed to COVID-19 units; and workarounds for inpatient rehabilitation facilities. A section on lessons for the future stressed countering burnout, early engagement of physiatrists, mastering the continuum of care, and fostering resiliency. “We’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” “The pandemic, for all its horrors, has created opportunities for improving care,” Dr. Whiteson says. “As physiatrists show their value in managing COVID patients and building collaborative processes with other specialties, we’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” Providing Guidance for Treating PASC Dr. Whiteson is also a leader of AAPM&R’s Multidisciplinary Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) Collaborative, which brings together physiatrists with clinicians from other specialties—such as pulmonology, cardiology, and neurology—to develop guidance on best practices in rehabilitation for “long COVID” patients. The collaborative is publishing a series of guidance statements in . The first statement , on the assessment and treatment of fatigue in PASC, was released in August 2021. Its recommendations included strategies for phased return to activity, energy conservation, therapeutic diet, and pharmacologic therapy. “A key approach in all these areas is to encourage patients to follow the strategies independently,” Dr. Whiteson explains. “To optimize energy conservation, for example, patients should be educated in the ‘Four P’s’—Pacing, Prioritizing, Positioning, and Planning.” Patients should also be advised on ways to resume work, the authors suggest, as long as it does not worsen symptoms or lead to significant post-exertional malaise. Possible accommodations include limiting hours, working from home, adjusting physical aspects of work activities, using mobility aids as necessary, and taking more breaks. second guidance statement , on the management of cognitive impairments in PASC patients, was published in December 2021 with Rusk Rehabilitation associate professor Jeffrey S. Fine, MD , as its lead author. This paper offered recommendations for assessing and treating cognitive and neurologic symptoms, such as headache, brain fog, memory problems, executive function deficits, and visuospatial difficulties. In January 2022, Dr. Whiteson and the collaborative published a third guidance statement , on the assessment and treatment of breathing discomfort and respiratory sequelae. Drawing Lessons from the Front Lines Future guidelines will cover other manifestations of PASC, including its impact on cardiovascular and autonomic, behavioral and mental, and pediatric health. Each guidance statement will include a section on healthcare equity and incorporate input from patient advocacy groups. “We experience this syndrome one way as physicians, but patients experience it another way. It’s crucial to understand that,” notes Dr. Whiteson. Rusk Rehabiliation has long been on the front lines of treating both acute COVID-19 and its long-term health impacts. As the first wave of the pandemic impacted New York, Rusk experts shared their insights through a series of webinars , as well as the weekly Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast and NYU Langone Health’s SiriusXM channel, “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” “Our experience in this area gives us a great deal to offer,” says , Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” Jonathan H. Whiteson, MD, is vice chair for Rusk Rehabilitation Clinical Operations, medical director of cardiac rehabilitation, and an associate professor of medicine and rehabilitation medicine. His research focuses on cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans has a significant impact on the health and quality of life of more than 30 million U.S. adults . Among veterans, it is one of the most common service-related disabilities related to military noise exposure. For those with severe hearing loss, the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system offers comprehensive services, including hearing aids and cochlear implants, that differ from those available to Medicare patients. Cochlear implants can restore speech understanding in patients with severe hearing loss who experience life-changing difficulties such as loss of oral communication and have limited benefits from hearing aids. To date, there has been little research to clarify the factors influencing how and why veterans and their providers adopt certain technologies for severe hearing loss. , an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, is now leading NYU Langone Health researchers in exploring this question using unique databases within the VA system. “The VA is an optimal setting to study management of severe hearing loss due to unique access to data within the audiometric repository, which allows for identification of patient, system and provider factors associated with receipt of various treatment strategies,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” The Pilot Study Dr. Friedmann and his team are conducting a pilot study of hearing loss, funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service, that incorporates video interviews with key stakeholders, including veterans’ primary care providers and audiologists, along with quantitative data from the VA’s robust audiometric and prosthetics database. “Optimal management of hearing loss requires a good understanding of the perspectives of various stakeholders,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our multilevel analysis of the longitudinal VA dataset will allow for the identification of both the macro- and micro-level factors that impact patient care.” This mixed methods analysis will be used to clarify the prevalence, modes of treatment, and time to treatment of veterans with severe hearing loss, as well as identify factors associated with different treatment approaches. The researchers also plan a thematic analysis of semi-structured interviews to identify barriers and facilitators to particular treatment modalities. Hypothesizing Contributing Factors Despite guideline recommendations, cochlear implantation in the U.S. remains underutilized, with some studies estimating 6 to percent usage among potential candidates. While the precise reasons for cochlear implant underutilization remain unclear, experts believe that limited knowledge of candidacy criteria by primary care providers, poor patient understanding of outcomes, and disparities in reimbursement may be contributing factors. This project, Dr. Friedmann says, will be able to explore these and other factors using a repository containing hundreds of thousands of audiograms. “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes.” “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Understanding and addressing these barriers could represent a modifiable risk factor for eligible candidates.” Changing Patient-Provider Behaviors Ultimately, Dr. Friedmann believes that the delivery of optimal hearing care requires tailored treatments offered on the basis of specific degree of hearing loss and individual patient preferences within both the VA and civilian population. Education will also be key, for both patients and providers, Dr. Friedmann notes. “We hope our data will inform the development and testing of educational materials to achieve best practices in the treatment of this condition.” NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting This February 12–16, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in San Francisco At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty present 39 posters, 31 e-posters, 34 papers, 31 videos, and 21 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Thursday, February 15 Podium Presentation: Use of Technology Improves Short-Term Clinical Outcomes in Total Knee Arthroplasty : Benjamin Schaffler, MD; Jonathan L. Katzman, BA; Muhammad A. Haider; Weston Buehring, BS; Matthew S. Hepinstall, MD, FAAOS : 11:29–11:33 am : West, Room 2001 Podium Presentation: Trimming the Risks: Weight Loss and its Effect on Obesity-Related Complications in Spine Fusion Surgery : Abel De Varona Cocero, BA; Camryn P. Myers, BA; Constance Maglaras, PhD ; Fares Ani, MD; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD, FAAOS Tina Raman, MD : 1:38–1:42 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 153 Podium Presentation: The Monitored Anesthesia Care–Soft Tissue Infiltration with Local Anesthesia (MAC–STILA) Technique Decreases Incidence of Short-Term Postoperative Altered Mental Status in Hip Fracture Patients Sanjit R. Konda, MD Abhishek Ganta, MD : 3:30–3:34 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 155 Friday, February 16 American Orthopaedic Society of Sports Medicine Specialty Session: Patients with Bilateral ACL Reconstruction (ACLR) Have 3X the Rate of Posterior Tibial Slope Greater than 12-Degrees Compared to Unilateral ACLR: MRI and Radiographic Evaluation : Sharif Garra, MD; Zachary Li, BS; Jairo Triana, BS; Naina Rao; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD : 8:15–8:20 am Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs A study by orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health has demonstrated that a primary biceps tenodesis procedure yields better outcomes than a secondary biceps tenodesis performed after a failed SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) repair. Orthopedic surgeons commonly see SLAP tears of the shoulder secondary to trauma and associated with overuse in overhead-throwing athletes and manual workers. An arthroscopic repair of the superior glenoid labrum where the biceps originates can maintain the patient’s anatomy, but the continued pull of the biceps on the labrum and other potential limitations have yielded a high rate of clinical failure after SLAP repair, especially among older patients. Many surgeons have traditionally reasoned that a failed SLAP repair could be revised with little or no harm to the patient by following up with a biceps tenodesis, which has a higher success rate but requires cutting the biceps and switching its anchor from the labrum to the upper part of the humerus. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” “Doing what we call the potentially ‘safer surgery’ by repairing it is not necessarily safer, it’s just that surgeons are more comfortable with that,” says study coauthor Division of Sports Medicine . Because a biceps tenodesis involves cutting the biceps and transferring it, patients and doctors often view it as a much more involved procedure. “In this study, we found that it’s better to do the primary biceps tenodesis, if it’s indicated, than to repair the SLAP tear,” Dr. Jazrawi says. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” Better Outcomes The retrospective comparison study, published in Arthroscopy, Sports Medicine, and Rehabilitation , compared 57 male patients who underwent a primary biceps tenodesis with 19 counterparts who underwent a secondary biceps tenodesis after an initial, failed SLAP repair. The researchers found that the primary biceps tenodesis cohort reported significantly better functional and pain outcomes (Figure 1). The study found no significant differences in the rate or timing of return to play, and none of the patients required a further shoulder surgery after the biceps tenodesis. Figure 1. A comparison of functional outcomes from primary and secondary biceps tenodesis. Adapted From: Lorentz NA, et al. Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 2022;4:e1979-e1983 In prior head-to-head comparison studies, a primary biceps tenodesis delivered better long-term outcomes, an easier recovery, higher patient satisfaction, and a higher return to play rate than a primary SLAP repair. The new study confirms those earlier findings in a larger, independent patient population. “Go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Eric J. Strauss, MD “The source of the trouble with a SLAP tear is likely the displacement of the superior labrum by the long head of the biceps,” says study coauthor and orthopedic surgeon . “If you take the long head of the biceps out of the equation and move it to a different spot, which is what a tenodesis accomplishes, you can significantly improve a patient’s symptoms because you’re basically taking away the pain generator and a lot of the theoretical reasons why a SLAP repair would fail.” Dr. Strauss maintains that the accumulating data support a phase-out of SLAP repairs. “One of the big take-home messages from our study and all of our research into patients with SLAP tears is take the middleman out of the picture,” he says. “While we did show that you can have a successful result after a failed SLAP repair, go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. He specializes in both orthopedic surgery and sports orthopedic surgery. Eric J. Strauss, MD, is assistant professor in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. His research interests include cartilage and ligament repair, meniscus repair, rotatorcuff repair, and shoulder arthritis. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair Randomized, controlled cannabidiol trial yields promising results immediately after arthroscopic surgery. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Study finds needle arthroscopy provides excellent access to and visualization of small joints despite a small loss in image quality. Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Study points to a pivotal role for Notch in preserving skeletal integrity and warding off bone loss during aging. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy Early intervention restores elbow flexion, with no contracture and improved shoulder function. Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Study finds Hox gene expression can aid bone healing, suggesting a novel target for tissue engineering therapies. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Extremely minimally invasive endoscopic technique offers to greatly reduce postoperative pain and recovery times. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Lenard A. Adler, MD Adult ADHD Program , is recognized as a national expert in adult psychiatric disorders, specializing in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and related conditions. Currently, he is serving on a committee assembled by the American Professional Society of ADHD and Related Disorders to develop what will be the first U.S. guidelines for adult ADHD. Given the significant underdiagnosis of ADHD in adults, he says awareness is key to ensuring patients receive effective treatment to improve symptoms, emotional stability, and overall functioning. Although they are often overlooked, treatments ranging from pharmacological to behavioral and psychosocial interventions can ameliorate symptoms. Here, Dr. Adler discusses his framework for recognizing and treating ADHD in adults, tools his team has helped develop to support international screening, and how clinical trials underway at NYU Langone are addressing gaps in treatment. The Impact of Underdiagnosis When ADHD goes unaddressed in adults, what impact does that have on a patient’s overall health and wellbeing? Dr. Adler: Underdiagnosis is a critical issue, leaving those affected at risk of experiencing ongoing difficulties. Surprisingly, ADHD is the second most common neuropsychiatric disorder, affecting 8 to 9 million adults across the country. Only about 11 percent of adults with ADHD are currently diagnosed or treated. Over the years, countless studies have established links between untreated adult ADHD and adverse life outcomes, including poor academic performance, lower income, and a higher probability of being divorced or separated. It has also been strongly linked to delinquency and substance use disorders. “ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions. Adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified.” What’s more, ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions, such as bipolar disorder, personality disorders, major depressive disorder, and anxiety disorders. Notably, adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified. Screening and Assessment Tools What are the common symptoms of ADHD in adults, and how can screening help identify at-risk individuals? The most common symptoms are hyperactivity, inattention, easy distraction, trouble listening, and impulsiveness. These usually lead to behavioral, emotional, and vocational problems and co-present with another psychiatric disorder. “ADHD can run in families. It is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated.” ADHD can also run in families. Thus, it is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated. We are able to conduct online consultations and assessments through the , a secure and confidential platform that allows our specialists to provide personalized care remotely and at flexible times. Our team has been instrumental in designing a portfolio of assessment tools, including the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale Symptom Checklist Adult ADHD Self-Report Screener , in partnership with researchers at Harvard University and others. These are useful for general practitioners who want to become more familiar with the symptoms of ADHD in adults, and they are globally leveraged for education, research, and direct care. Appropriate Intervention What treatment options are available for adults with ADHD, and what is your approach to treatment selection? Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process among the psychiatrist, the patient, and their caregivers. Generally speaking, the first step is establishing the diagnosis, then determining whether pharmacological or nonpharmacological treatment will be used, and if both, how they will be sequenced. We consider the age of the patient, the severity of the disorder, and any comorbidities. “Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process. Patient preference should be the primary consideration.” Most adults are treated with psychostimulants, which include methylphenidate and amphetamines. Newer developments in drug therapy are focused on modifying the mechanism of drug delivery, specifically by extending their half-lives to minimize side effects. Other approved pharmacological options include atomoxetine and viloxazine, both selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors. Common side effects of psychostimulants include increased heart rate and blood pressure, agitation, insomnia, and in rare cases, unusual thoughts. When deciding on a treatment strategy, these factors need to be taken into account, and patient preference should be the primary consideration. As these agents are controlled substances, monitoring is essential to prevent misuse or misdirection. In terms of nonpharmacological strategies, cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) or relaxation with educational support are common adjuncts to standard medication therapy. There is some evidence to support behavioral interventions as well. What gaps in treatment exist today, and how can we address them? While there are many stimulants and nonstimulants approved for treating adult ADHD, some patients still experience symptoms and functional impairments. To bridge these gaps, we have several clinical trials currently underway that are testing psychostimulants for a variety of different symptom sets, including those that affect co-traveling symptoms, known to affect higher-level organizational and planning processes, emotional regulation, and sluggishness of thought and action. We are also pioneering studies involving individual- and group-based CBT and noninvasive neuromodulatory interventions. It is hoped that these studies will provide us with insight into unresolved questions and open new pathways for personalized treatment. Psychiatry, Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Lenard A. Adler, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry. His research and clinical interests center on attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults. He serves as vice chair for education in the Department of Psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD Program. Presenters at the 2023 APA Annual Meeting In May, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Psychiatric Association’s 2023 annual meeting in San Francisco. The theme was “Innovate, Collaborate, Motivate: Charting the Future of Mental Health.” Saturday, May 20 Your Mental Health Starts in Your Gut Microbiota Gia Merlo, MD : 8–9:30 am : Room 160, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Metabolic Regulators of Psychological Stress and Brain Trauma 3:45–5:15 pm : Room 153, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine Fentanyl Sneaks into Social Media: High Risk Adolescent Substance Use in the Online Era Jose Vito, MD Co-Authors : Katrina B. Kostro, MD, Ryan Badolato, MD : 1:30–3 pm Symptom, Perpetuator, Catalyst: The Impact of Homelessness on the Trajectory of Mental Health Care : Daniel Laor, MD (Dis)Trust Your Gut: Serotonin and the GI Tract : Aydar Shaildayev, MD Sunday, May 21 Overcoming Disparities in Alcohol Treatment Among BIPOC Women : Room 211, Moscone South, Second Level Exploring Cannabidiol’s Efficacy in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder, PTSD, and Traumatic Brain Injury Discussant: 10:30 am–noon : Room 303, Moscone South, Third Level Impact of Telemedicine on Utilization of Psychiatric Resources in New York City During the COVID-19 Pandemic : Sarah J. Ricklan, MD, M.Phil. NYU Langone Co-Author Carina M. Lorenz, MD : 3:45–5:15 pm Monday, May 22 The Promise of Precision Medicine for Treating Alcohol Use Disorder and PTSD 1:30–3 pm Psychiatrist Knowledge and Attitudes Regarding HIV Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Across Three Sites Mark V. Bradley, MD Tuesday, May 23 Advancing Diversity, Equity and Inclusion in Psychiatry Research : Room 201, Moscone South, Second Level At-Home Sublingual Ketamine for Depression: Large Scale Outcomes and Safety Matteo Malgaroli, PhD : Room 154, Moscone South, Upper Mezzanine A Subacute Inpatient Unit for People Experiencing Homelessness and Serious Mental Illness in NYC Carine Nzodom, MD : Room 212, Moscone South, Second Level Racial/Ethnic Disparities in Engagement and Clinical Outcomes from a Collaborative Care Model for Depression and Anxiety : Kelly Yang A Review of the Clinical Trials Derived from the Systematic Reviews of Psilocybin Use in Substance Use Disorders Ritvij Satodiya, MD Wednesday, May 24 To Look or Not to Look: Vicarious Trauma from Reviewing Graphic Images Raina Aggarwal, MD : Rooms 305/309, Moscone South, Third Level “No One Leaves Home Unless Home Is the Mouth of a Shark”: Collaborating to Advance the Emotional Health of LGBTQ Individuals in Crisis Zones Omar Fattal, MD, MPH : Room 214, Moscone South, Second Level Virtual Summer Course Lifestyle Psychiatry for Optimal Performance and Mental Health NYU Langone Faculty Available : June 26–August 25 Transgender and Gender Diverse Care: Progress and Opportunities in Hormone Therapy Michele B. Glodowski, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Specializing in transgender endocrinology, Michele B. Glodowski, MD , adds uncommon expertise to NYU Langone Health’s comprehensive transgender health program where she runs the gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic. Here, she discusses the evolving landscape of hormone therapy, the need for studies that capture the diverse concerns of transgender and gender diverse patients, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance individualized care. A Role for Progesterone in Feminizing Hormone Therapy A combination of estrogen and anti-androgens is the most studied regimen for feminizing hormone therapy, and there is controversy regarding the inclusion of progesterone. Any developments regarding the benefits versus risks of progesterone? Dr. Glodowski: Unfortunately, we’re still in need of bigger and better studies. The safety data that we have for progesterone, which points to concerns regarding the risk of breast cancer and cardiovascular disease, is based off studies in postmenopausal cis women with a mean age of 65. We’re missing specific data for our patient population on both benefit and safety. Keeping that in mind, for most young, healthy patients, it’s probably safe. So we’re using it pending better studies. Assessing Metabolic Changes in Non-Binary Transmasculine Patients Is your clinic involved in any current studies? We are doing a small retrospective cohort study assessing metabolic changes in non-binary transmasculine patients. There’s a lot of data, mainly from Europe and the Netherlands, looking at metabolic changes in transgender men and finding increases in blood pressure, cholesterol, and weight. There have been few studies with gender non-binary patients who are on lower doses of testosterone. We wonder if it makes a difference, especially when thinking about the uterine lining or abnormal uterine bleeding. Our study is looking at a number of metabolic parameters in non-binary transmasculine patients at our clinic before starting hormone therapy and then after. Expanding Access to Gender-Affirming Hormone Therapy What elements are important when building a gender-affirming hormone therapy clinic? Dr. Glodowski: Our program has several unique strengths. The first is that appointments at our clinic are reserved specifically for patients seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy. As general endocrinologists and primary care doctors, we have many patients looking to schedule with us. Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now. “Establishing a dedicated clinic helps those seeking gender-affirming hormone therapy access that specialized care now.” The other strength is our experienced surgeons. Our team performs more than 550 gender-affirming surgeries each year. From plastic surgeons to urologists, we have surgical expertise available to help with those components of their care. A Unique Area for Individualized Care Given the unique need for a personalized approach in transgender health, what are you learning at NYU Langone about delivering that level of individualized treatment? I can’t highlight enough how important it is in this field to have an individualized and patient-centered approach. For a patient who identifies as gender non-binary, we might target a different testosterone level, or they might remain on testosterone for varying amounts of time. For a transfeminine patient for whom erectile function is important, we might target a slightly higher testosterone level. At our clinic, we establish goals and expectations upfront so that we’re all on the same page. We’re also flexible. If goals change, we can change the regimen. Training Early-Career Physicians in Transgender Health How do you see training and education moving forward in this rapidly evolving area? Educating future endocrinologists and doctors is a key step to expanding access to transgender care. Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in. For example, if you’re a breast cancer surgeon, you will see a patient who is transfeminine or transmasculine and you should understand each patient’s individual risk. “Even if you’re not going to be providing hormone therapy, you should have a basic understanding of transgender health no matter what you specialize in.” We have a strong group of fellows in the endocrine division who rotate through our clinic. In addition, medical students, residents, or other fellows with a particular interest in hormone therapy often shadow me as well. Michele B. Glodowski, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine. She specializes in integrated transgender endocrinology and care. Novel Pathway Reveals How Large, Intact Lipoproteins Traverse the Endothelium Endothelial Cells. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff A recent study in the Journal of Clinical Investigation has revealed a new pathway by which endothelial cells internalize and distribute dietary lipids to surrounding tissue. The findings not only provide clarity regarding the movement of lipids across the endothelium but may also explain the biological process underlying cutaneous eruptive xanthomas, lesions in the skin composed of lipid-laden macrophages. “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues.” “While this study focused on identifying a clinical finding, it is most significant for illustrating a new pathway for lipid delivery to tissues,” says , senior author on the study and the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology. Lipid Delivery Pathways For skin and other tissues with continuous, non-fenestrated capillaries, lipid delivery requires the regulated movement of lipoproteins or their components across the endothelial cell barrier. Atherogenic low-density lipoproteins (LDL) can be taken up and transcytosed across endothelial cells as intact particles. Recently, studies have helped define the specific receptors on the artery wall involved in this process. By allowing the transfer of LDL across endothelial cells, these receptors promote cholesterol deposition into the arterial wall and initiate atherosclerosis. In contrast, lipid delivery from larger lipoproteins, like chylomicrons, has long been thought to hinge upon lipolysis at the capillary surface, most notably by the enzyme lipoprotein lipase (LPL). Docked at the apical membrane of endothelial cells, LPL cleaves apart chylomicrons, with the released fatty acids then readily taken up by endothelial cells and distributed to surrounding tissue. “However, an increasing body of clinical and experimental evidence suggests the existence of alternative pathways for endothelial chylomicron-derived lipid uptake independent of LPL activity,” wrote the authors. Uptake of Intact Chylomicrons To test this, Goldberg and colleagues studied the movement of chylomicrons into endothelial cells in a setting of LPL deficiency. In doing so, they discovered an LPL-exclusive pathway by which endothelial cells internalize intact chylomicrons, metabolize them in lysosomes, and either store or release the lipids. The investigators further demonstrated that the released lipids can be taken up by skin macrophages and lead to lipid accumulation, as is seen in eruptive xanthomas. The novel pathway may help explain the common development of cutaneous xanthomas in patients with genetic LPL deficiency. “Our results imply that uptake of chylomicrons by endothelial cells may be an important and under-appreciated pathway for the delivery of circulating triglyceride-rich lipoprotein-derived lipids that is exclusive of intravascular lipolysis,” wrote the authors. Beyond Skin Macrophages “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease.” Although the study focused on skin macrophages, Goldberg and colleagues suspect that uptake and processessing of chylomicrons by endothelial cells likely plays a large role the in the delivery of lipids to many parenchymal tissues. “Still to be determined is whether this pathway will also deliver lipids to other sites, such as to cells within the artery wall that cause atherosclerosis, the most common form of heart disease,” Dr. Goldberg says. Ira J. Goldberg, MD, is the Clarissa and Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Professor of Endocrinology and director of the Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism. His research focuses on abnormalities of lipoprotein metabolism, macrovascular disease in diabetes, and the role of triglycerides in atherosclerosis. AI-Driven Screening for Anxiety & Depression New research shows an artificial intelligence (AI) tool effectively detected distress in hospital workers’ conversations with their therapists. Journal of Medical Internet Research AI , the findings suggest a potential new use of AI to screen for depression and anxiety. During the COVID-19 pandemic, virtual psychotherapy grew as a treatment option for strained healthcare workers. Researchers examined a series of digitalized session transcripts using an AI technique called natural language processing (NLP). They identified common phrases used by patients and tied the terms to mental illness. NLP combs through data to pinpoint keywords that capture the meaning of a body of text. The study, led by NYU Langone Health psychologist , is the first application of NLP to identify markers of psychological distress in healthcare workers, according to the authors. “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns.” “Our findings show that those working on the hospital floor during the most intense moments of the pandemic faced unique challenges on top of their regular job-related stressors that put them at higher risk for serious mental health concerns,” says Dr. Malgaroli. Teletherapy Transcripts as Screening Tools Analysis involved treatment transcripts from more than 800 physicians, nurses, and emergency medical staff. Also included were transcripts from 820 people receiving psychotherapy during the first U.S. wave of COVID-19 but not working in healthcare. The study revealed that among healthcare workers, those who spoke to their therapists specifically about working in a hospital unit, lack of sleep, or mood issues were more likely to get an anxiety and depression diagnosis compared with healthcare workers who did not discuss these topics. These risks were not seen in workers from other fields who discussed the pandemic or their jobs. “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms.” Naomi M. Simon, MD “These results suggest that natural language processing may one day become an effective screening tool for detecting and tracking anxiety and depression symptoms,” says study co-author , a professor and vice chair in the While the overall heightened risk for anxiety and depression among those who discussed working in a hospital was small (3.6 percent), the study authors say they expect the model to capture additional signs of distress as more data are added. Confidential Self-Assessments Dr. Malgaroli notes that another potential use for this model could be to provide healthcare workers a way to record themselves answering brief questions. The NLP model could potentially detect their risks for mental health conditions and provide confidential feedback, including resources to seek additional support if they chose it. The researchers caution that the report only captured the mental state of patients early in their treatment. The team now plans to explore how the discussion topics change over time as therapy progresses. Matteo Malgaroli, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Psychiatry. He specializes in digital mental health at the intersection of psychiatry, AI, and technology. Naomi M. Simon, MD, is a professor and vice chair for research faculty development and mentorship in the Department of Psychiatry. Her research interests include clinical and translational research in the understanding and treatment of anxiety and stress-related disorders and prolonged grief. Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast Listen now to hear luminaries in the field discuss the latest research-informed interventions. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Psychiatrists urge increased screening for symptoms of internet gaming disorder. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness New program tackles access challenges for lifesaving mental health services. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine Inaugural American Society of Addiction Medicine award recipient discusses the shared responsibility to redress inequities. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users A new study reveals overwhelming support among pharmacists for participation in interventions. Bisphosphonates and Atypical Femoral Fractures: An Update A 61-year-old female showing features of atypical diaphyseal femoral fracture. Reprinted under a Creative Commons license from Rajput I, Kumar J, Siddiqui A A, et al. (May 17, 2019) Surgical Fixation of Atypical Femur Fractures in Bisphosphonate-treated Patients. Cureus 11(5): e4690. Valerie Peck, MD , is a recognized expert in osteoporosis and metabolic bone diseases. Here, she discusses the evidence for bisphosphonates in the treatment of osteoporosis, the need for provider education about atypical femoral fractures, and strategies the clinic is pursuing to advance both detection and prevention. Benefits and Risks of Bisphosphonates Bisphosphonates are often recommended as a first-line treatment for postmenopausal osteoporosis, although there is controversy regarding the association between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Any updates regarding the benefits versus risks of bisphosphonates? Dr. Peck: After the earliest case reports on bisphosphonate-related atypical femoral fractures back in 2007, we began assessing a series of these patients and have been following them since that time. Atypical femoral fractures were always uncommon, but today the number of patients presenting with atypical fractures is markedly decreased. Essentially, there are two clinical scenarios of concern. Some patients receive bisphosphonate therapy for too long, and should stop, while other high-risk patients should continue to receive therapy, and choose to stop. Balancing Prevention and Detection How do we find a balance between the detection of atypical femoral fractures and prevention of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures? For most patients, the reduction in vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fracture risk greatly outweighs atypical fracture risk. However, as the duration of bisphosphonate therapy increases, the risk of atypical fractures also increases. If too many patients discontinue bisphosphonate therapy, we may see a reverse trend with an increase in the number of regular fractures. The majority of clinicians agree that drug holidays are beneficial for many patients. Typically, after three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug. “After three to five years of therapy, clinicians should reevaluate fracture risk by measuring bone densities and reassessing risk factors, and determine whether to continue the drug.” Guideline Recommendations Are there clinical practice guideline recommendations to inform the optimal duration of bisphosphonate therapy? Currently there are clinical management recommendations but not a consistent clinical guideline. Within these recommendations, each patient’s duration of therapy needs to be individualized. Our current research is focused on populations at higher risk for atypical femoral fractures, including those who are younger and more active, Asian populations, and those with certain femur geometries. Genetics is also a relevant risk factor, and research studies are underway. In patients at high risk for fracture, longer-term bisphosphonate therapy may be indicated. In many of these cases, switching to an anabolic agent or another therapy is more appropriate. Optimizing Strategies for Detection What are your recommendations for the detection of atypical fractures in patients on long-term bisphosphonate therapy? If a patient has been on bisphosphonate therapy for five years or longer, and they are going to continue therapy, or switch to another antiresorptive drug, clinicians should assess for early signs of atypical femoral fracture. Initially, we detect these early incomplete fractures using X-ray imaging of the femur, where a very astute radiologist can detect early signs of focal cortical thickening. More recently, using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening. “Using a DXA [dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry] scanner with the most up-to-date software, we’ve been able to scan the full length of the femur to assess for early signs of cortical thickening.” In this way, we can detect early incomplete atypical fractures when patients come to clinic for routine bone densities. The software is only available at some of our sites, but is a unique feature of NYU Langone Health’s osteoporosis unit. The availability of DXA machines with this new software could allow for both prevention of complete atypical fractures and greater individualization of treatment, resulting in great benefit for patients. Additional Resources Where can readers learn more about the early detection of atypical fractures for patients on bisphosphonate therapy? If readers want to learn more, I’d refer them to the 2019 International Society for Clinical Densitometry Official Position . I was involved in the development of these recommendations as a member of the working group. Thyroid Disorders, Bone Health Valerie Peck, MD, is a clinical professor of medicine. Her research focuses on thyroid diseases and osteoporosis, including the link between bisphosphonate use and atypical femoral fractures. Presenters at the 2023 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and clinicians join colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2023 Scientific Sessions in Philadelphia. View At this year’s AHA Scientific Sessions, , will be named a 2023 AHA Distinguished Scientist. This award recognizes individuals who have made major contributions to the affairs of the scientific council over a continuing period, and who have made substantial professional contributions to the field represented by the council. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See a full list of NYU Langone presenters here Award Presentation AHA 2023 Distinguished Scientist Awardee Saturday, November 11, 8 am : Main Event I Friday, November 10 Visit Volume Influences the Effectiveness of Electronic Tools to Improve Heart Failure Care Leora Horwitz, MD Stuart D. Katz, MD 11:45­–11:55 am 102AB Saturday, November 11 Resuscitative TEE – Ready for Prime Time? Carlos L. Alviar, MD 10:17–10:26 am Poster Abstract Electrocardiographic Correlates of Cardiac MRI Finding in Women with MINOCA Mitchell Pleasure, Harmony Reynolds, MD : 11:30 am–12:45 pm Zone 4, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Panel Participant Controversies in High-Risk Percutaneous Coronary Interventions: It Doesn’t Matter How You Do It, As Long As You Do It Well! : 2:20–2:45 pm : 107AB Sunday, November 12 Clinical Trials in Cardiogenic Shock: Challenges Faced and Lessons Learned : 8–8:12 am : Main Event II Utility of CR in Unique Populations: SCAD, INOCA : 9–9:15 am : 104AB In Vitro Aspirin Responsiveness Can Predict Platelet Hyperreactivity and Cardiovascular Risk Jeffery S. Berger, MD , Sarah Liberow : Zone 1, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Heart Transplant in Older Adults: Outcomes in the Modern Era of Transplant Jennifer A. Cruz, DO , Stephanie Golob, MD, Bernard S. Kadosh, MD Haider Nazeer, MD : 3:30–4:45 pm : Zone 2, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 Monday, November 13 Digital Health Interventions for the Optimization of Postpartum Cardiovascular Health: A Systematic Review : Darcy Banco, MD, MPH, Dorice Vieira, MPH : 10:30–11:45 am : Zone 3, Science & Technology Hall, Level 200 A Wearable Accelerometry and AI Framework for Phenotyping Step-Count Trajectories in Older Adults Undergoing Cardiac Rehabilitation Souptik Barua , Stephanie Peña, Kelly Tellez AI Refines QTc Interval Estimation in Atrial Fibrillation Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD To date, lack of an accurate mechanism for measuring the QTc interval has represented a significant challenge for clinicians, especially among high-risk patient groups such as those with atrial fibrillation (A-fib). New research from NYU Langone Health suggests estimating the QTc interval using artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval associated with risk of torsades de pointes. A research team led by cardiologist , developed the AI-driven QT correction algorithm to rule out prolongation of the QTc interval in A-fib. A report published in JACC: Clinical Electrophysiology shows the tool could be useful in cases where a concurrent sinus electrocardiogram (ECG) is not available, potentially addressing both QT measurement and correction problems. “Determination of the QTc interval is of critical importance. And in A-fib, it is very difficult to accurately measure the QTc,” Dr. Jankelson says. Leveraging the Dataset The researchers’ convolutional neural network (CNN)–based model was designed to maximize objectivity and clinical applicability. Their approach incorporated the ECG signal as well as general patient and cardiac-specific data, such as sex, race, QRS duration, heart rate, and more into the predictions. “We identified patients with a 10-second 12-lead ECG in A-fib within 10 days of a sinus ECG with similar QRS durations,” Dr. Jankelson explains. The full dataset included 6,432 patients in A-fib with an average age of 71 years. The data were randomly divided to generate subsets, with 60 percent allotted to training, 20 percent to validation, and 20 percent to testing. Dr. Jankelson and his team evaluated the model for predicting the QTc value in the sinus ECG based on an input of the A-fib ECG waveform and its associated features. High Degree of Accuracy After training, the model performed best for ruling out QTc prolongation, exhibiting high negative predictive value (0.82 in males and 0.92 in females) and specificity (0.92 in males and 0.97 in females). In addition, approximately 84 percent and 97 percent of the predictions were contained within 1 standard deviation (SD) and 2 SD from the sinus QTc interval. The model also outperformed the AFQTc method, exhibiting significantly narrower error ranges. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” “To our knowledge, this is the first published deep neural network developed for QTc prediction in A-fib ECGs,” Dr. Jankelson says. “Our model applied to A-fib ECGs accurately predicted the sinus QTc interval, outperforming current alternatives and exhibiting a high negative predictive value.” Improvements Over Time As with most AI-driven models, performance improves over time. Dr. Jankelson says the model might therefore be used to inform clinical decision-making in various patient cases. “For example, QT-prolonging medications for the management of A-fib or comorbid conditions could potentially be safely prescribed, using data derived from the AI tool,” Dr. Jankelson explains. “The clinical impact of this AI tool is potentially great with integration into existing EMRs or commercially available ECG software,” he adds. Lior Jankelson, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Inherited Arrhythmia Program at NYU Langone’s Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests include artificial intelligence, atrial fibrillation, and cardiac device management. Femoral Artery Homograft Relieves Coronary Stenosis in Young Adult with CHD A New Strategy to Tackle Ostial Stenosis A 22-year-old man with congenital heart disease recently underwent a coronary arterioplasty—an innovative approach to alleviate stenosis for a patient who underwent an arterial switch operation (ASO) as an infant for d-transposition of the great arteries. The case was recently described in the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery Techniques While ostial stenosis or kinking is a well-recognized complication of ASO, the patient’s anatomy did not lend itself well to more traditional repairs. This patient had a single coronary artery that arose from the right-facing sinus before bifurcating. It split into a widely patent and dominant right coronary artery and a left main coronary artery (LMCA) that was severely stenosed at its origin. The atypical course of the LMCA along the aortic wall also presented challenges. “Catheterization and percutaneous angioplasty of the LMCA with possible coronary stenting was deemed unpredictable in the long run with a risk of occluding the adjacent right coronary artery. We had to choose surgery,” says , a cardiologist specializing in adult congenital heart disease. “Onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” The care team, which included primary surgeon , both pediatric and adult congenital cardiothoracic surgeons, also decided against coronary artery bypass grafting because of the patient’s young age. Instead, the team made an incision across the LMCA ostium—well past the stenosis—to fit a 6 millimeter femoral artery homograft that had been fashioned into an oval-shaped patch. The patch augmented the narrowed segment of LMCA, the area of bifurcation, and the opening of the single coronary artery. After patch placement, both coronary arteries were widely patent on angiogram and the patient was discharged on aspirin. “Complex and sometimes silent proximal coronary narrowings can occur years following the arterial switch operation for transposition of the great arteries,” Dr. Mosca says. “Options including intracoronary stenting or coronary artery bypass grafting can prove suboptimal, particularly in younger adults. No perfect solution exists, however, onlay grafting with a femoral artery homograft is a viable solution given its pliability, strength, and hemostatic qualities.” Unusual Anatomy Informs Approach Coronary computed tomography angiogram showing stenosis (yellow arrow). SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Catheterization and coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed decades after an arterial switch procedure that a 22-year-old patient had a single coronary artery (yellow arrow) bifurcated into a dominant right coronary artery and an LMCA that was severely stenosed at its origin. Patch Augmentation Using Homograft Material Surgeon’s view during the procedure to relieve the stenosis. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Surgeons extended the aortotomy incision into the proximal LMCA past the stenosis. Then, they placed a femoral artery homograft onlay patch across the region and slightly onto the ascending aorta. The patch’s natural endothelial lining theoretically makes it less thrombogenic as compared to other types of artificial patches, Dr. Mosca says. A Successful Follow-Up Coronary computed tomography angiogram 6 months following the procedure. SOURCE: Dan G. Halpern, MD. Six months after the procedure, coronary computed tomography angiogram revealed a patent left (red arrow) as well as right main coronary artery. The patient was also asymptomatic at follow-up. Dan G. Halpern, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and the medical director of the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program. His clinical interests include care for adults with congenital heart defects, aortopathies, and pregnant patients with heart disease. Gaining Long-Term Perspective on Coronary Disease Management While revascularization in acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and myocardial infarction (MI) decreases mortality and recurrent MI, outcomes in stable ischemic heart disease (SIHD) are less well understood. Funded by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, the ISCHEMIA-EXTEND study is the long-term follow-up of randomized, participants in the ISCHEMIA ISCHEMIA-CKD trials. “Initial results from ISCHEMIA showed durable improvements in angina control and quality of life with initial invasive management—but no differences in major adverse cardiac events and mortality,” says , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology and a leader of many complex international clinical trials. Building Upon Earlier Results The ISCHEMIA and ISCHEMIA-CKD investigators and their global partners presented the initial findings at the American Heart Association (AHA) Scientific Sessions in November 2019 and published the results of both trials in in April 2020. VIDEO: Dr. Judith S. Hochman discusses interim results of the landmark ISCHEMIA study at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions. Among patients with stable coronary disease and moderate or severe ischemia, the researchers did not find evidence that an initial invasive management strategy, as compared with an initial conservative management strategy, lowered the risk of ischemic cardiovascular events or death from any cause. In ISCHEMIA-CKD, they observed similar results among patients with advanced chronic kidney disease. Moreover, there was an early excess of peri-procedural MI and a late reduction in spontaneous MI in both studies. Building upon these results, ISCHEMIA-EXTEND was pioneered to assess whether an initial invasive strategy reduces long-term all-cause mortality as compared with an initial conservative strategy over an extended period of follow-up. At its launch, more than 5,000 participants worldwide entered the trial. “It is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” “Prior evidence shows that spontaneous MI has a larger impact on subsequent death than most peri-procedural MIs,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Thus, it is imperative to assess long-term all-cause mortality following these two different management strategies.” A Continued Investigation AHA Scientific Sessions 2022 , that took place November 5 to 7 in Chicago, Illinois, and virtually, Dr. Hochman presented the interim results of ISCHEMIA-EXTEND on behalf of the research group. After a median follow-up of 5.7 years, the researchers found that initial invasive management compared with initial conservative management resulted in no difference in all-cause mortality, but there was a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality and higher risk of non-cardiovascular mortality. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” “The previously observed excess of non-cardiovascular mortality with initial invasive strategy persisted,” Dr. Hochman says. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” What Lies Ahead Dr. Hochman emphasizes that these findings are consistent with prior randomized trials of revascularization versus medical therapy alone, which have reported similar rates of all-cause mortality between groups. Next, the researchers will continue to follow surviving participants into 2025 for a projected median of approximately 10 years to increase the precision around these mortality estimates. “We believe these data will add to the evidence base for shared decision-making between patients and their physicians,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Providers should engage in shared decision-making with patients to discuss treatment preferences.” Judith S. Hochman, MD, the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, is considered one of the world’s leading cardiovascular clinical trialists. She has led numerous international studies on the management of ischemic heart disease and the pathophysiology and management of cardiogenic shock. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation James A. Grifo, MD, PhD , has devoted a large part of his career to advancing planned oocyte cryopreservation, allowing women to postpone childbearing whilst maintaining the potential of having a biological child. Nationally renowned as an expert on reproductive endocrinology, Dr. Grifo is convinced of the promise of this fertility preservation technique. Here, he discusses how the approach has evolved and how specialists at the center are helping patients decide if the procedure is right for them. Progress Over Decades Cryopreservation techniques have advanced over the past three decades, leading to higher success rates. What are the latest numbers and recommendations? Dr. Grifo: Despite the growing demand, outcome data are scarce. We estimate that cryopreserving 20 or more mature oocytes under 38 years of age provides a 70 percent chance of live birth . The primary factors for success are age, oocyte quantity, and number of oocyte cryopreservation cycles. Younger age is linked with the retrieval of more oocytes and a higher chance of live birth. While there is no consensus on the ideal age for oocyte cryopreservation, we usually recommend cryopreserving oocytes before 35 years of age. Beginning the process older often necessitates more oocytes—therefore more oocyte cryopreservation cycles. “We cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals.” We have seen patients have successful deliveries after freezing eggs at ages up to 43, though success rates decline after the age of 39. In general, the possibility of success for a 41-year-old is low, and while we offer the procedure to those over 41, we don’t encourage it. In terms of oocyte quantity, we cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals. Patients should also be informed that completing multiple oocyte cryopreservation cycles increases the chances of live birth, even when a reasonable number of oocytes are obtained from the first cryopreservation cycle. Psychological Considerations Weighing the pros and cons can be challenging for patients. What are some key considerations and how do you guide patients through the process? The decision to pursue oocyte cryopreservation is a difficult one to make, considering the mix of parental desires, financial considerations, time constraints, medical concerns, and even ethical dilemmas. Decision timing is another important factor as a long delay may lead to fewer oocytes, lowering the chances of live birth. Once a patient decides to pursue egg freezing, they may face anxiety related to the process, time requirements, number of oocytes collected, and long-term outcomes. Additionally, the process may be stressful because it can create doubts about one’s future partner or path in life. We acknowledge this stress, emphasizing that it’s experienced by most patients undergoing fertility preservation. At the center, we offer counselling to patients undergoing the procedure, as it can help them to navigate their feelings and stressors, and to develop coping strategies. We also connect patients with therapists, financial advisors, and other resources. Overall Satisfaction When a patient considers oocyte cryopreservation, what are the main reasons for following through versus deciding against the procedure? Are patients generally happy with their decision? Our local data suggests that the primary reasons for not pursuing oocyte cryopreservation were financial and time constraints. However, larger studies are needed to better evaluate the rate of decision regret among women who consider the process but ultimately decide not to proceed. “Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs.” According to national survey data, the most common reason for planning oocyte cryopreservation is lack of a partner, with up to 88 percent of women citing this as their primary motivation. Many of these women want to be parents but have not found the right partner—voicing that they do not want to settle simply because their natural fertility window is closing. Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority— 89 percent —of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs. James A. Grifo, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility and the NYU Langone Fertility Center. He has pioneered numerous techniques in preimplantation genetic diagnosis and preimplantation genetic screening. His research centers on assisted reproduction, with a focus on egg freezing technology. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Ted T. Lee, MD , an internationally renowned expert in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, has joined NYU Langone Health as director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology A past president of the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists and a sought-after lecturer and surgeon, Dr. Lee has contributed significantly to research and advancements in the field of gynecologic surgery, particularly the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis. Here, he discusses his career transition, the evolution of the specialty, and how to create a culture of surgical education. Embracing a New Opportunity Dr. Lee, you recently joined NYU Langone Health. What drew you to the institution? Dr. Lee: Overcoming barriers and expanding the surgical envelope has been a theme of my career and of my time in leadership. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar, and I’m excited to take on the challenge. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar. NYU Langone is a world-class institution committed to providing the highest quality of gynecologic care. This type of environment appeals to me; I knew it was the right fit. In my new roles, I’ll not only be overseeing minimally invasive surgical services for common and complex gynecologic conditions, I’ll also be overseeing the comprehensive care and fertility-sparing programs as part of NYU Langone’s The Evolving Surgical Paradigm You’ve written and spoken extensively about minimally invasive gynecologic surgical procedures, especially in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Reflecting on this changing surgical landscape, what should the field be thinking about going forward? For the past 20 years, minimally invasive techniques have been widely adopted in surgical practices and have become the standard approach for treating benign gynecologic conditions. Virtually all benign gynecologic conditions, in my view, are now best addressed with minimally invasive techniques. “The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic.” Despite major breakthroughs in imaging and robotics, I fear that there is an overreliance on these modalities in our field. To make an accurate diagnosis of endometriosis, imaging must be combined with a detailed history and physical examination. One must not forget the basics and neglect the art of medicine. It should be noted, also, that the risks and benefits of laparoscopic surgery can vary by the individual institution or surgeon. The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic. Mentoring Trainees and Junior Faculty You dedicate significant time to education and mentorship. From a leadership position, what is your approach to equipping the next generation of surgeons with the skills to succeed in their careers? Educating future surgeons and mentoring junior faculty is key to expanding access to high-quality surgical care. The successful operation of a surgical education program is nearly impossible without the support of divisional leadership. At some institutions, securing support for education can be a hurdle, as the financial return on investment for surgical education is not always clearly defined. “Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective.” Few institutions prioritize education and mentorship to the level that NYU Langone does. In my new position, surgical education will be a top priority, with a specific emphasis on surgical anatomy and advanced robotic and laparoscopic surgical techniques. Anecdotally, several of my former fellows now hold leadership positions at major academic institutions across the nation and overseas. They in turn are training the next generation of young gynecologic surgeons. Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective. What thoughts would you share with a peer aiming to foster a culture of surgical education? Cultivating a teaching culture requires a team effort, not the work of a single person. The best way to ensure success is by shifting the departmental culture. The first step is for the leadership to show support and encourage faculty to take part in teaching and mentorship. True success lies in the active participation of dedicated core groups of faculty members. Ted T. Lee, MD, is director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He specializes in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication Alerts flagging patients who may benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) more than doubled prescriptions. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars Conventional thyroidectomy entails an anterior neck scar ranging from 1 to 2 inches in length—serving as a highly visible reminder to patients of their thyroid disease and a marker to others about their medical histories. Within the 150-year-history of thyroidectomy, surgeons have only recently begun to apply endoscopic tools to avoid the visible scar on the lower neck. Initially pioneered in Asia, these endoscopic techniques include the TOETVA (transoral endoscopic thyroidectomy vestibular approach). “The TOETVA procedure was a milestone in that it eliminated a skin incision and scar from thyroidectomy by putting the incisions inside the mouth under the lower lip area,” says , an endocrine surgery specialist. Dr. Suh was among the first U.S. surgeons to travel to Asia to study this technique and introduce it on the West Coast through a program at the University of California San Francisco. At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Suh is continuing to pioneer the application of endoscopic techniques to thyroidectomy, including a modified transoral approach that can resolve shortcomings of the original TOETVA technique. “TOETVA may have limitations, including the size of the specimen that can be removed through the middle incision without disruption as well as prolonged discomfort at the chin,” says Dr. Suh. TOaST: A Modified Transoral Approach The transoral and submental technique (TOaST), is a modified transoral procedure that eliminates the need for significant dissection of the chin by creating an effectively invisible submental incision. By substituting the submental incision for the central intraoral incision used in the TOEVTA procedure, it can reduce potential for dissection-related complications and shorten the path from the incision to the thyroid gland. article in the Journal of Surgical Research , Dr. Suh and colleagues reported on the initial experience of 14 TOaST procedures between 2017 and 2018. Subjects included five patients with benign thyroid nodules, three with cytologically indeterminate nodules, three with papillary thyroid cancers, two with Graves’ disease, and one patient with a multinodular goiter. The technique was demonstrated to be safe in this series, with an extremely low rate of complications overall and no permanent complications such as recurrent laryngeal nerve injury and neck hematoma. The cosmetic results were outstanding. Dr. Suh’s subsequent, larger experience with this technique confirms the results from this initial case series as well as its broader applicability. “About half of patients in a typical high-volume endocrine practice would be candidates for the procedure under currently accepted selection criteria,” Dr. Suh says. Scarring Not a “Minor Concern” “The idea of a visible scar is not a minor concern,” says Dr. Suh, who is a fierce patient advocate concerning the scar associated with conventional thyroidectomy and the impact it can have on self-perception. Although the TOaST procedure does leave a scar, it is functionally invisible, placed in the submental area that is often the incision site for aesthetic procedures such as neck lifts and liposuction. “There’s a common theme that comes out of my conversations with thyroidectomy patients: It’s not about vanity, but rather about seeing the scar every day in the mirror, reminding of the disease and unavoidably sharing private health information,” says Dr. Suh. He likens investing the extra effort to avoid scarring as analogous to reconstructive breast surgery after a mastectomy, rather than to an elective aesthetic surgery. “The most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Research into patients’ priorities and concerns confirms this idea. In a discrete choice experiment published in Thyroid , Dr. Suh and colleagues found that, while the risk of nerve injury, travel distance, and cost remain the most important factors for patients choosing among surgical approaches for thyroidectomy, cosmetic considerations also influence choices depending on patient age. Younger patients (up to 60 years old) are significantly more likely to choose surgical approaches with no visible neck scar and accept significant trade-offs, including increased out-of-pocket cost, extra travel distance, and even a slightly higher rate of complications. Dr. Suh is wary of overinterpretation of these and similar findings. “Patients may be willing to tolerate an increased risk of complications, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that we should as surgeons,” he says. “Thankfully, this is a moot point because these techniques appear to be very safe. I think the most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Taraneh Shirazian, MD , a multidisciplinary program dedicated solely to women with fibroid disease, is one of a select few of its kind in the United States. Led by minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon , the group works to offer every option for women with fibroids, including medical management and active surveillance. Dr. Shirazian and her team are also actively engaged in research to improve care and treatment for women struggling with this condition. One recent study from the team, Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology , evaluated the relationship between prior treatment and current disease burden in women presenting to the center. The main finding: patients with fibroids who received prior treatment report worse symptoms and a diminished quality of life compared with those who have not yet received treatment. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction.” The results suggest that those whose fibroid treatment has not been a success can benefit from receiving treatment at a dedicated fibroid center. Symptoms and Treatment Uterine fibroids are common benign growths of the uterus. While some women remain asymptomatic regardless of fibroid size, others experience burdensome symptoms that can include abdominal pain, urinary problems, pelvic pain and pressure, and heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding, Dr. Shirazian says. “Iron-deficiency anemia is a common issue for women with fibroid disease,” she adds. “Fibroid symptoms can greatly affect a woman’s quality of life.” The morbidity of uterine fibroids is underscored by the reliance on hysterectomy as the primary treatment option in much of the country, says Dr. Shirazian. “Because it results in the elimination of childbearing potential, hysterectomy can have a huge impact on overall health and wellbeing,” she explains. “Many women don’t feel comfortable with removing the uterus and can suffer social and emotional distress.” Myomectomy is the optimal surgical option for those seeking to remain fertile, Dr. Shirazian says, while uterine artery embolization and radiofrequency ablation are additional options to alleviate symptoms. In addition to surgery and such procedures, medical management represents another approach to addressing fibroids. This includes evidence-based drug therapies such as newer gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonists, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, progestin and hormonal contraceptives, and tranexamic acid. “Many women experience fibroid symptoms for years, unaware that there are effective nonsurgical treatment options,” Dr. Shirazian says. Holistic approaches like diet modification, supplementation, and lifestyle changes may also alleviate symptoms and are used as additive strategies at the Center for Fibroid Care. Cases of Treatment Failure A recent study involved a survey of 302 patients seeking care at the Center for Fibroid Care. Of the 169 patients who filled out questionnaires, 42, or 25 percent, reported prior fibroid treatment. Of those patients, 18 reported prior procedural treatment, 8 reported prior medical management, and 16 had experienced both prior procedural treatment and medical management. Notably, the treatment approach did not affect the study’s main finding. Regardless of whether patients reported previous procedural treatment or medical management, they consistently reported elevated symptom severity scores and lower quality of life compared to those who had not yet undergone treatment. “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings. Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support.” “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support. Often, patients are not given options that resonate with them and support their life goals.” Expanding Holistic Approaches Ensuring treatment plans are tailored to the individual patient is a priority for Dr. Shirazian and her team. In addition to considering the patient’s symptoms and the size and location of fibroids, the team also takes into account the patient’s fertility goals and access to treatment. “We explain all available treatment options, starting with medications and lifestyle choices, and in more severe cases, surgical strategies,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies.” Another from the team is evaluating a structured intervention, known as the Lifestyle Intervention in Fibroid Elimination (LIFE) Program , to determine whether a lifestyle, nutrition, and exercise program can modify fibroid recurrence in asymptomatic patients who have had fibroids removed via a myomectomy or other procedure. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies that may help patients avoid major surgery,” says Dr. Shirazian. Division of Women’s Global & Community Health Taraneh Shirazian, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Center for Fibroid Care and the Division of Women’s Global and Community Health. Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions A focused approach treats unmet needs that often fall between gynecology and dermatology practice. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access Oncologist and clinical trials leader Dr. Bhavana Pothuri discusses the need to universalize next-generation sequencing. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy An expert in transgender pregnancy discusses progress and best practices for inclusive care. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy Using remote monitoring technology for diabetes in pregnancy reduces pregnancy and newborn complications. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment Investigators at the , director of pituitary diseases, are focused on reducing the gap between symptom onset and management of acromegaly. As time to biochemical control is a main determinant of morbidity and mortality, Dr. Agrawal says minimizing management delays would go a long way toward improving outcomes for this rare disease. One product of this effort—a literature review co-authored by Dr. Agrawal—reports that cavernous sinus invasion, large tumor size, and high growth hormone levels are predictive of incomplete remission following tumor resection. Published in Pituitary , the findings may help propel a more personalized approach to patient care for this rare disease. “While surgery is largely curative, about 40 to 50 percent of patients with acromegaly require the continued support of medication for the rest of their lives,” Dr. Agrawal says. “The question is: Which medication is the best for a certain patient?” Predictors of Poor Surgical Remission To determine factors predictive of remission, the researchers identified 77 publications describing outcomes of transsphenoidal selective adenomectomy. Most represented single-center, retrospective studies. Cavernous sinus invasion arose as the strongest preoperative predictor of poor surgical remission, followed by high growth hormone levels. “Aggressive tumors or those that had bony invasion almost always required medical therapy post-surgery,” Dr. Agrawal explains. In contrast, low levels of growth hormone in the postoperative period were a robust predictor of durable remission. These and other prognostic factors, Dr. Agrawal notes, could be incorporated into machine learning models for predicting incomplete response to surgery, which could be used to minimize delays in medical management and further personalize post-surgery treatment. Optimizing Medical Management While currently, it can take months for a particular medication to be deemed ineffective and treatment to be modified, Dr. Agrawal and colleagues are pursuing ways to more precisely understand which patient groups are likely to respond to a given therapy. Toward this goal, the team is helping enroll patients in the national Chiasma Management of Acromegaly ( MACRO ) registry—the first registry for acromegaly in the U.S.—which aims to develop new oral therapies for patients experiencing challenges with exisiting treatment options. “It’s all about customizing the medications to the patients. That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” “Because all the tumors in acromegaly behave differently, it’s all about customizing the medications to the patients,” Dr. Agrawal says. “That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” Improving Early Diagnosis The researchers note that patients with acromegaly commonly experience symptoms for five to 10 years before finally being diagnosed with a pituitary tumor. To improve diagnosis, Dr. Agrawal also spends time educating other providers on the slow, insidious onset of the disease. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key.” As the subtle symptoms of acromegaly include carpal tunnel syndrome, sleep apnea, and dental anomalies, Dr. Agrawal says many of her referrals come from neurology, pulmonology, and dentistry. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key,” Dr. Agrawal says. In addition, NYU Langone Health has hosted a well-attended, virtual Acromegaly Patient Education Day to help patients with acromegaly, their family and friends learn more about the condition. Endocrinology, Neuroendocrinology Nidhi Agrawal, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine and director of pituitary diseases at the Pituitary Center. She specializes in neuroendocrinology and the treatment of pituitary disorders. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures The study found no significant increase in risk when comparing patients who have surgical treatment for an open distal radius fracture within 24 hours of injury with those treated after 24 hours. Adapted From: Azad A, et al. Is Time Truly of the Essence? Outcomes of Open Distal Radius Fracture Management. Poster presented at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting. March 2023. Las Vegas, NV. Within orthopedics, open fractures have long been viewed as a surgical emergency, irrespective of location, patient characteristics, or the mechanism of injury. After an open distal radius fracture (ODRF), for example, orthopedic surgeons have typically advised urgent irrigation, debridement, and operative fixation. However, a retrospective analysis led by investigators at NYU Langone Health—the largest of its kind—challenges these practices. The study, which was named the best hand and wrist paper at the 2023 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting, finds delaying treatment for an ODRF injury beyond 24 hours does not yield a greater risk of postoperative complications. Age, energy and mechanism of injury, or fracture grade doesn’t alter the outcome in any statistically significant way either. “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures. There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius.” “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures,” says senior author , co-director of the multidisciplinary . “There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius. We can’t think of them and treat them the same way. What’s good for one might not be good for the other, and vice versa.” The study, which included 94 patients presenting with an ODRF injury over a six-year period, analyzed the rate of postoperative complications, including surgical site infection, revision irrigation and debridement, delayed soft tissue healing, loss of reduction, and nonunion and malunion. A follow-up national database study by the research team, still underway, has so far pointed to the same conclusions. Dr. Hacquebord says that similar complication rates regardless of time to treatment have important implications for resource allocation. “What would be better: for a patient to go urgently to the operating room in the middle of the night with a surgeon who is not a specialist in the area or to be taken to the operating room by a surgeon who is a specialist in the area at a time that’s convenient for the patient?” he says. “I think the latter is much better patient care. That’s what we’ve shown, and people overall have been very excited by our results.” New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays When a child arrives in an emergency department or urgent care with a suspected fracture, the location of that injury isn’t always immediately clear and the child is commonly evaluated with multiple X-rays. Patients and their families, however, have often told pediatric orthopedic surgeon Jody Litrenta, MD , about the stress of repeated imaging and long visits. “I started to think that we could be more specific about the way we’re evaluating kids with injuries,” Dr. Litrenta says. In particular, she began wondering how to make the process more streamlined and effective. study in the Journal of Pediatric Orthopaedics , she and colleagues at NYU Langone Health describe a simple radiographic protocol that successfully reduces the overall number of X-rays needed to thoroughly evaluate suspected fractures without missing any injuries. “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough. These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough,” Dr. Litrenta says. “These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” Playground Injuries For their study, the researchers first conducted a retrospective chart review of 495 cases of suspected fracture in pediatric patients. “We wanted to see what kinds of injuries we were getting and what the current practice was,” she says. Based on the data, the team created and distributed a simplified decision aid to help emergency room physicians and consulting residents think through when another X-ray is or isn’t necessary. “There’s an idea that you need to X-ray the joint above and below the apparent injury. This is something that we do very often in a high-energy trauma when we’re concerned that in addition to a tibial shaft fracture, maybe there’s an injury in the knee or ankle,” Dr. Litrenta says. “But in kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” “In kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” The protocol’s three basic tenets include evaluating an injury with at most two contiguous areas of radiographs, limiting the screening for secondary fractures except for children with elbow injuries, and not repeating or obtaining additional imaging without a clear clinical concern. X-Ray Reductions To assess the new protocol, the team evaluated its performance on an additional 333 pediatric injuries. Main outcome measures included the final diagnosis, total number of X-rays, number of anatomic areas imaged, visit length, and time for additional trips to radiology. Crucially, the team found that the protocol still allowed for a comprehensive assessment that didn’t miss any injuries. It also yielded a significant reduction in overall X-rays, especially for elbow injuries (Figure 1), and in X-rays for patients who had arrived with outside imaging. “Importantly, we saw that if those X-rays were negative, continuing on the hunt and sending the patient back for additional X-rays wasn’t helpful,” Dr. Litrenta says. Figure 1. The implementation of a simple radiographic protocol yielded significant reductions in the number of pediatric patients requiring 3 or more X-rays to evaluate suspected fractures of the ankle, tibia, forearm/wrist, and elbow. Adapted From: Schlacter JA, et al. J Pediatr Orthop. 2023;43(1):61-64 The researchers didn’t see a significant reduction in the length of emergency department visits, perhaps due to other limiting factors related to the administration of anesthesia and required observation times. Dr. Litrenta also cautions that car accident injuries and concerns about non-accidental trauma or abuse generally require more thorough X-ray evaluations. For low-intensity injuries, though, the protocol proved its ability to reduce imaging with no loss in diagnostic rigor. “For the typical trauma that we see, it’s a good way to say that this is what you should start with and feel confident that you don’t have to escalate,” Dr. Litrenta says. Jody Litrenta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics who specializes in pediatric orthopedic surgery and treats patients with scoliosis, limb abnormalities, fractures, Blount disease, and clubfoot. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation A new energy source for catheter ablation could radically alter the field. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients A growing population needs support beyond standard cardiac care. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Resembling Takotsubo syndrome, this life-threatening set of symptoms requires rapid and much different treatment. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart After decades of research, is there a permanent artificial heart on the horizon? Artificial Heart Implant Followed by Heart-Kidney Transplant in a Patient with Amyloidosis A life-saving effort entailed two dauntingly complex surgeries—and a team of over 100 clinical specialists. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony Leadless pacemakers are a novel technology designed to overcome the complications and adverse effects associated with conventional transvenous pacemakers. The devices have been shown to be safe , with a low risk of both short- and long-term complications and high rates of successful implantation. “Leadless pacing is the future of pacemaker technology with the potential to transform the lives of patients with bradyarrhythmias,” says A national leader in the treatment of arrhythmias with the new technology, Dr. Chinitz helped lead the MARVEL 2 study that evaluated the performance of a leadless ventricular pacemaker with automated, enhanced accelerometer-based algorithms that provide atrioventricular (AV) synchronous pacing. Research suggests that patients with pacemakers that maintain AV synchrony appear to have less morbidity and mortality than patients with ventricular stimulation alone. Additional benefits to AV synchrony include avoidance of pacemaker syndrome, improvement of quality of life, and improvement in left ventricle stroke volume and function. Decades of Progress For several decades, cardiac pacing has been exclusively performed by systems consisting of subcutaneously implanted pulse generators with one or more transvenous leads. A major limitation of traditional pacing systems is the potential for complications attributable to the pacemaker pocket or leads, including hematoma, pneumothorax, hemothorax, lead dislodgement, lead failure, or infection. While early versions of leadless pacemakers were unable to provide AV synchrony, modern leadless devices are designed to overcome pocket- and lead-related complications , with reports of an approximate 60 percent reduction in complications compared with transvenous pacemakers. “Encouraging results from preliminary studies have led to an increased interest in a broader use of leadless devices,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “Despite recent progress, currently available leadless pacemakers only provide single-chamber ventricular rate responsive pacing.” Moving Toward AV Synchrony In collaboration with Medtronic, Dr. Chinitz and his team led the MARVEL 2 study, results from which showed that accelerometer-based atrial sensing with an automated, enhanced algorithm significantly improved AV synchrony in patients with sinus rhythm and AV block who were implanted with a leadless ventricular pacemaker. Building on earlier observations , these encouraging results from MARVEL 2 confirmed an increase in AV synchrony and stroke volume with AV synchronous pacing. In addition, the performance of the algorithm did not appear to have diminished efficacy in newer implantations versus long-term implantations. “The enhanced MARVEL 2 algorithm allowed for AV synchronous ventricular pacing with a leadless pacemaker in patients with normal sinus activity and complete heart block,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Translational Outlook If the early results from the MARVEL 2 trial hold up, Dr. Chinitz anticipates the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt leadless pacing technology. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in pacemaker technology. “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing.” “If implemented in clinical practice, this new technology will help to further expand the spectrum of patients who might be eligible for leadless pacing,” Dr. Chinitz says. Larry A. Chinitz, MD, is the Alvin Benjamin and Kenneth Coyle Sr. Family Professor of Medicine and Cardiac Electrophysiology, clinical director of the Leon H. Charney Divison of Cardiology, and director of cardiac electrophysiology and the Heart Rhythm Center. His research interests center on developing new techniques for treating cardiac arrhythmias. Our Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Team The team members at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center hold advanced degrees and board certification in their fields, publish in peer-reviewed journals, and lecture extensively worldwide. Our researchers have participated in task force and guideline panels and are known internationally for their expertise in musculoskeletal disorders. Marco Campello, PhD, PT, Director Dr. Campello is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU and also holds a New York State physical therapy license. Dr. Campello’s research interest is in the prevention and treatment of work-related musculoskeletal disability, with a special interest in multidisciplinary intervention and work-related health outcomes. Dr. Campello is a member of the North American Spine Society and the EUROSPINE, the Spine Society of Europe. Learn more about Dr. Campello Jeffrey Perry, DO, Medical Advisor Dr. Perry is board certified in physical medicine and rehabilitation and is a specialist in the nonsurgical management of musculoskeletal disorders and work-related injuries. Dr. Perry is a clinical instructor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine and Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Perry Sherri Weiser-Horwitz, PhD, Director of Clinical Services and Research Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a licensed health psychologist with more than 25 years of research and clinical experience in the field of musculoskeletal disorders. She is an expert on the biopsychosocial model of health and illness. She provides education and cognitive behavioral pain management to patients and trains health providers in psychological treatments. She is the recipient of federal research grant funding, has written numerous articles and chapters, and lectures extensively on this topic. Dr. Weiser-Horwitz is a member of the North American Spine Society and a consultant for their Allied Health Committee. She is also a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. Learn more about Dr. Weiser-Horwitz Ali Sheikhzadeh, PhD, Director of Research and Education Dr. Sheikhzadeh is a research associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone. He received his doctoral degree in ergonomics and biomechanics from the Graduate School of Arts and Science at NYU. He is the program director of the graduate program of ergonomics and biomechanics offered by the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh is also the director and principle investigator for government funding grants for the Educational Research Center at NYU Langone, which is a part of the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health–sponsored New York and New Jersey Education and Research Center. Dr. Sheikhzadeh has conducted research extensively, focusing on ergonomics and biomechanics, with an interest in product evaluation and human performance assessment. He is a certified industrial ergonomist at the Oxford Research Institute, and a member of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society. Learn more about Dr. Sheikhzadeh Hope Mowery, PhD, HSP, Psychologist Research Coordinator Dr. Mowery is a licensed psychologist with expertise in health psychology. She received her PhD in clinical psychology from Indiana University in 2010 and completed her internship and fellowship at Geisinger Medical Center in Pennsylvania in 2011. She has extensive experience in the practice of mindfulness and behavioral and cognitive behavioral therapies as well as multiple areas of health psychology. She has worked with diverse groups of adults with various health concerns and in several different settings, including primary care, inpatient consultation and therapy, outpatient clinics, and telehealth. She has trained in acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), cognitive processing therapy (CPT), motivational interviewing (MI), and dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). She evaluates the people she treats from a biopsychosocial perspective and provides education and evidence-based therapy. Dina Shah, PT, Clinical Specialist Ms. Shah graduated from Daemen College in 2001 with a bachelor's degree in physical therapy. Ms. Shah has more than 12 years of clinical orthopedic experience and is a licensed physical therapist in New York, New Jersey, and Canada. Ms. Shah is also a certified strength and conditioning specialist. Ka Hing Chow, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Chow is a staff physical therapist. She earned her doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University in 2010. The year before she was an intern in our clinic, where she was trained in interdisciplinary care and the biopsychosocial approach to prevent chronicity and disability. She is a New York State–licensed physical therapist. Zihao Du, DPT, PT, Staff Physical Therapist Dr. Du earned his doctorate in physical therapy from Long Island University Brooklyn and graduated with a master’s degree in nutrition and food studies from New York University. He is highly motivated to continue developing his clinical, interpersonal, and social skills to deliver high-quality care and promote rehabilitation and wellness. Cindy Ozuna, Departmental Secretary Cindy is the front desk supervisor and is highly knowledgeable in the service standards of NYU Langone. Cynthia Reyes, Secretary I Cynthia assists patients at the front desk and has worked at NYU Langone for more than 23 years. Joel Toby, Rehabilitation Attendant As a rehabilitation attendant, Joel assists in the safety of our patients and the maintenance of the gym and gym equipment. The ergonomic product consulting services at provide usability evaluation for existing products as well as prototypes for product lines. Our research staff uses direct objective and indirect subjective methods for usability testing and to improve performance and design. Our experts have consulted with numerous firms for biomechanical and ergonomic product evaluation. Services we offer include the following: assessing force capabilities and excessive forces or identifying pressure on surfaces three-dimensional motion tracking to assess motion patterns and postural deviations electromyography testing to assess muscle activity in terms of onset, relative effort, and fatigue indirect measurements, such as interviews, focus group meetings, and surveys, to provide essential information for the development and evaluation of a product Our product design and evaluation service enables designers and small businesses to submit their products to high-quality testing. The results can be used to demonstrate adherence to safety guidelines and comfort, giving the product an edge in performance and marketing. An ergonomic assessment is also necessary for medical device approval by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and to adhere to functional performance criteria set by Section 508 under the Rehabilitation Act. Experts from can design a corporate ergonomics program to assist employers who want to improve the comfort and wellbeing of current employees and those returning to work after an injury or impairment. Employers participating in our corporate ergonomics program receive services designed to solve the ergonomic issues at their workplace. It’s a participatory approach—we bring together all appropriate stakeholders who work collaboratively with our team to assess what risks are more prevalent in the workplace and then choose the most effective and sound ergonomic solutions to mitigate or eliminate those risks. These solutions may include the following. Ergonomics Evaluation and Recommendation Our experts conduct evaluations to gain insight into different aspects of the work, from organizational culture to the breakdown of job tasks and activities. This process may include focus groups to better understand risk factors associated with injuries as well as a review of the company’s injury surveillance rate, if that data is available. If it is not, our team researches data from a similar industry or helps your company establish an injury surveillance system. Based on the needs identified from this information, our specialists can design an effective corporate ergonomics program. Education and Training Programs Our specialists can train and educate your safety and occupational health staff in the prevention of musculoskeletal injuries. Our programs encourage autonomy in educating your workforce. In collaboration with your staff, we prepare on-site training adapted to meet the needs of management, unions, and employees. We offer group lectures on a variety of topics, such as safety at work and psychosocial stressors in the workplace. Our programs also offer on-site training that covers topics such as ergonomic awareness and combine lectures, exercises, and discussions in an interactive, small group format to improve health and employee satisfaction. We can help you design, implement, and maintain ongoing injury prevention programs in your workplace. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH Despite the improved survival rate for patients with breast cancer over the past several decades, disparities in mortality rates between White and Black patients have not changed , and a significant gap still exists. Breast surgeon , is focused on eliminating this gap. Here, Dr. Joseph, who serves as clinical systems lead for NYU Langone Health’s co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program , reflects on how the recent updates to screening recommendations impact Black women and spotlights an often-overlooked tool: the early risk assessment. Changing Guidelines Prompt Questions The screening guidelines for mammograms have changed over the last few years. Can you share why you think these changes don’t go far enough? Dr. Joseph: Last year, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) lowered the age at which all women can begin breast cancer screening to 40. It’s great that the USPSTF lowered the screening age for all women, but the recommendation is still for screening every other year. Plus, the guidelines make no mention of risk assessment. If you have a family history, you’re not going to wait until 40, you may need to start screening earlier, you may need to get genetic testing, you may need additional breast imaging, such as an MRI. “All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer.” All women, and particularly Black women, need to have a discussion with their primary care doctors no later than the age of 30 about what their risk is for developing breast cancer so that they know when they should start screening. Primary Care Conversations Your research focuses on disparities in screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black women. What does this research tell us? Our research has found that Black women tend to be diagnosed with breast cancer at a younger age than White women and have a 42 percent greater risk of death from breast cancer than White women if diagnosed before age 50. They are also more likely than White women to get a diagnosis without having had a single screening exam. Before the guidelines changed, I and a group of breast surgical oncologists led a multicenter study Annals of Surgical Oncology that advocated that Black women needed to be screened earlier. Because Black women experience higher rates of breast cancer diagnoses before age 50, and are at greater risk for more-aggressive disease, initiating risk assessments and screening earlier can make a significant impact on closing those care gaps. “Primary care physicians must inquire about a patient’s family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community.” We also found there’s education that needs to happen with primary care doctors and obstetrician–gynecologists. Sometimes we see young women with breast cancer who have multiple family members with breast cancer but have never been referred for genetic testing. Primary care physicians must inquire about the family history of cancer, even though it’s not something typically discussed among family members in the Black community. Not initiating conversations with Black women about family history, risk, and screening opportunities perpetuates the current care gaps. Community Engagement to Improve Screening Your team is working to identify and educate underserved women who would benefit from breast cancer screening. Can you talk more about the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program? The program started as purely community engagement, but it morphed into something much bigger. We started by placing nonclinical patient navigators in the community , engaging women where they work, live, and socialize. The goal is to help educate women in the community on their risk and care options and then help them schedule appointments for mammograms and further diagnostic screening if needed. If they are diagnosed, that same navigator helps them along their entire cancer journey, including access to services if they are uninsured. As word spread among other community-based organizations, it became clear that some women who are diagnosed with breast cancer don’t have the means to travel in for treatment or deal with insurance issues. Now, we not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics in Brooklyn and Bellevue assisting patients with travel plans, insurance claims, and more. So far, we’ve had over 20,000 encounters. “We not only have navigators out in the community educating women at churches and beauty salons, but we also have navigators in our clinics.” Genetic testing and counseling are also part of the Welters Program; we felt it was important to have this available for all our patients, especially those who lack health insurance. We have two dedicated genetic counselors and a genetic counseling assistant as part of our program. If there’s one takeaway message from your work in this area, what would that be? Physicians should be vigilant about conducting breast cancer risk assessments for all women, but Black women are at an increased risk. It is important for them to not only get screened and examined annually beginning at 40, but they also need to have a risk assessment done no later than the age of 30. Kathie-Ann Joseph, MD, MPH, is a professor of surgery and population health, vice chair of diversity and health equity in surgery, clinical systems lead for the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, and co-director of the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focuses on breast cancer screening and diagnostic follow-up care in Black and other medically underserved women. Addressing Hearing Loss as a Barrier to Care Undetected hearing issues can result in poor communication between patient and provider and become an obstacle to care, says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. To assess the feasibility and potential benefit of one intervention, Dr. Chodosh and a team of researchers led a providing a simple hearing assistance device to patients age 60 and older who reported difficulty hearing during a Veterans Affairs (VA) emergency department (ED) visit. The researchers have now received VA funding to move forward with an expanded national study. “If a patient can’t hear well, they don’t always leave the ED with a good understanding of their problem or what they need after ED care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “When you’re using more cognitive effort to listen, that amount of effort is no longer dedicated to taking in, working with, processing, and encoding information—being engaged in the moment.” The Case for Personal Amplifiers HEAR-VA pilot study followed 133 veterans who presented to the ED of New York Harbor Manhattan VA Medical Center and were likely to be discharged to home. Enrolled patients either said that they had difficulty hearing or scored 10 or greater on the Hearing Handicap Inventory-Survey. Participants were randomized to no intervention or to receive a personal amplifier (PA), the Williams Sound Pocketalker 2.0, for use during their ED visit. Three short survey instruments were used: a Hearing and Understanding Questionnaire to gauge ability to understand without effort; a Care Transitions Survey to measure the patient’s readiness for discharge; and a Patient Understanding of Discharge Information survey. Following discharge, the researchers conducted surveys and post-visit phone calls to assess ED revisits. “There’s a critical qualitative piece to this,” Dr. Chodosh says. “We’ve had a lot of experiential and anecdotal evidence, but we want to find out if the PA device helps a patient interact with information in a more productive way.” Veterans with hearing difficulties reported improved ED experiences with use of PAs. Additionally, researchers found PAs might reduce the need to return to the ED within three days—suggesting a tangible improvement in patient outcomes as well as experience. “If you’re in the ED and you come back within three days, it may be because critical self-management information was not heard correctly, if at all. It’s easier to communicate with patients who are using amplifiers.” The VA as Study Site Dr. Chodosh explains why the team chose a VA medical center to conduct its research: “The VA has a history of geriatrics innovations; they place high importance on age-related care. Veterans are amazing—they are often easier to recruit as they have a high degree of volunteerism. In addition, audiology visits are among the most frequent visits for veterans outside of primary care.” One of the primary reasons many patients don’t pursue getting hearing aids is the cost, Dr. Chodosh adds. “The VA produces a great natural experiment because cost is no barrier—at least in some facilities, hearing amplifiers are a known commodity that can be ordered through the patient health record.” Validating the Pilot In the larger implementation trial, six national VA sites will roll out in phases over 40 months. The first phase is a repeat of the efficacy trial with a larger sample size: 400 veterans over a nine-month period of enrollment. “After the randomized efficacy period, anyone whose screening indicates hearing impairment will get an amplifier if they want it,” Dr. Chodosh says. With each progressive phase, the facilities will take on more responsibility for screening, distributing, and fitting hearing amplifiers. Research assistants will continue to conduct discharge surveys and will evaluate facility involvement. “Hearing is one of those things that we don’t see as healthcare-related in primary medical care,” Dr. Chodosh says. “Geriatricians have an important educational role to play in making everyone aware of just how critically important it is to be able to hear, and the downstream negative consequences when you can’t hear without additional effort.” Making the Case for Ambulatory Palliative Care in Advanced Kidney Disease Palliative care addresses the challenges of advanced kidney disease through provision of expert symptom control, assistance with complex medical decision-making, and facilitation of advance care planning. Internationally, ambulatory kidney palliative care clinics report positive outcomes—yet this approach is rare in the U.S., and little data exists on its effectiveness. “Our program is one of the few of its kind in this country,” says , director of the Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Renal Disease Support) Program, an ambulatory palliative care clinic embedded in NYU Langone Health’s Nephrology Faculty Group Practice. “We believe this model can benefit many patients,” adds Dr. Scherer, who is double boarded in nephrology and palliative care, “but it’s essential to develop a set of best practices to guide practitioners in a wide range of settings.” Capturing the Value of Ambulatory Services In October 2021, a team led by Dr. Scherer published the first U.S. study of patient and caregiver experiences receiving ambulatory palliative care specific to kidney disease. The study, published in the American Journal of Hospice and Palliative Medicine , included semi-structured interviews with eight patients and three caregivers addressing two themes: 1) communication about the emotional and physical aspects of disease, and 2) filling gaps in care. Under the first theme, participants reported that empathic communication from clinic providers was effective in leading to a better understanding of the life changes associated with advanced kidney disease. Such communication also strengthened patients’ ability to cope with their illness, fostering optimism and a proactive approach to their own care. Under the second theme, participants identified gaps in their care that were addressed at the clinic—particularly, symptom management and engagement in advance care planning. The search for symptom relief was a primary factor influencing participants’ decision to attend the clinic. Improvements in pain management were noted by most patients; one reported that this change had “turned my life around.” Many participants engaged in advance care planning during clinic visits, often for the first time. The majority of patient respondents were age 65 or older, representative of the general clinic population. “End-stage renal disease is far more often a disease of aging,” says , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative Care. “This research exemplifies the value of our integrated focus on improving symptom management and goals of care across geriatrics and palliative care patient populations—and identifying what may be unique needs of older patients.” The Road Ahead Dr. Scherer says that further research is needed to determine the optimal model of care for kidney palliative care in the U.S.—as well as how to dispel widespread misperceptions that palliative care pertains only to end-of-life care. In a future study, she and colleagues plan to focus on providing rigorous evidence for integration of palliative care through randomized controlled trials testing the effectiveness of this approach to care. Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S .” “Our study participants described a clinical experience of ambulatory kidney palliative care that is relatively unknown in the U.S.,” Dr. Scherer observes. “I hope these data can be of value to other [health systems] seeking to develop more patient-centered models of care for those living with kidney disease.” Palliative Care, Nephrology Jennifer S. Scherer, MD, is medical director of the Lower Manhattan Dialysis Center and an assistant professor of medicine. Her clinical and research interests center on developing a model of care that effectively integrates palliative care and nephrology, with the goal of achieving improved quality of life, coordination of care, and patient-driven decision-making. Settling the Surgery vs. Observation Debate for Acoustic Tumors Revolutionizing Brain Tumor Diagnosis Advanced optical imaging and AI combined could empower neurosurgeons to deliver a new level of care. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries An unprecedented system will accelerate insights for surgeons. Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice New research evidences benefits for patients with ≥25 brain metastases. Fewer Brain Metastases After Stopping Systemic Therapy Patients who discontinued therapy due to toxicity and those with certain mutations were more likely to develop new tumors. Tying Teamwork to Outcomes in Skull Base Surgery At NASBS, surgical leaders make the case for teamwork as a critically important—and deliberate—practice to achieve optimal outcomes. Infant with CHAOS Receives Lifesaving EXIT Procedure at Birth A multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. In a complex fetal surgery procedure performed at at NYU Langone, a multidisciplinary team established an airway in a partially delivered fetus with congenital high airway obstruction syndrome (CHAOS), enabling a safe birth and subsequent interventions of the heart and rectum. CHAOS is an extremely rare and serious birth defect that inhibits the child’s ability to breathe at birth. In this present case, a prenatal ultrasound scan at 24 weeks of gestation identified the complete blockage in the trachea. Without intervention, mortality is 100 percent. “The ultrasound revealed large, overinflated lungs, which can indicate CHAOS,” says , vice chair for clinical affairs–obstetrics and co-director of the . “As a result of the airway blockage, the lung fluid cannot escape the fetal mouth, causing the lungs to fill up immensely and swell.” The highly specialized delivery, known as EXIT (ex-utero intrapartum treatment)-to-airway, takes advantage of the uteroplacental blood flow and maternal-fetal gas exchange while the baby’s trachea is secured. Full delivery and ventilation followed. The mother, Yadi, had comorbidities—her BMI was 31, she had the Prothrombin gene mutation, and she was on 40 mg of Lovenox daily prior to the surgery. Yadi also had four subsequent miscarriages, polycystic ovary syndrome, and stage 4 endometriosis. “As the operation begins, the mother receives deep general anesthesia to achieve complete uterine relaxation,” says Dr. Roman. “Uterine flaccidity is necessary to preserve uteroplacental blood flow, although this poses the serious risk of severe hemorrhage in the event of placental abruption, so this is high risk to both mom and baby.” The EXIT Procedure The goal of the EXIT procedure is to establish an airway before the umbilical cord is cut, avoiding immediate crisis and allowing for a more stable transition from placental circulation to newborn circulation. Planning for EXIT treatment depends on early detection of the fetal anomaly. In this case, the procedure was scheduled for gestational week 35. Over 25 NYU Langone providers from maternal–fetal medicine, neonatology, pediatric surgery, pediatric ENT, and pediatric anesthesiology collaborated to plan the EXIT procedure. “CHAOS is an apt acronym for this condition; there is zero room for failure,” says , director of Children’s Surgical Services and director of the Division of Pediatric Surgery . “As soon as we learned of the diagnosis, we initiated a multidisciplinary team to begin the months of preparation.” “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway.” While the fetus’ head and neck were extracted from the uterus, Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and co-director of the , first attempted rigid scope. With that method failing given the full blockage, a successful tracheostomy was performed. Baby Aydin Idris Martin was successfully delivered, but the care team discovered his lungs were inflated because of the airway obstruction. This put pressure on his heart, affecting its ability to function properly. Moments after the EXIT, neonatologists started to resuscitate Aydin, but it was clear his heart was not recovering. Dr. Fisher made the quick decision to initiate ECMO to support his heart and lungs. Aydin was transferred to the NICU in critical condition—still on ECMO, but with an assisted airway established. Family Commitment Is Key “The most important thing about CHAOS is early diagnosis, detailed fetal assessment, and an adequate postnatal intervention for establishing an airway,” says Dr. Rickert. “Every EXIT procedure can be a bit different. When you have one congenital abnormality, you may have others.” Family commitment is equally important to ensuring the baby’s optimal long-term outcome, adds Dr. Rickert. “Aydin has at least one more surgery necessary before he will be able to breathe completely on his own. We plan to keep monitoring his airway and do a reconstruction in the next few years when he’s grown a bit bigger.” Partial Delivery via C-section The baby’s head and shoulders were delivered by Cesarean section, leaving everything below the chest in utero. The mother was placed in low lithotomy position and ultrasound was used to map the fetus and placenta. The fetal head and one arm were delivered for continuous pulse oximetry, leaving the umbilical cord and placenta intact while pediatric surgeons worked to establish an airway. Because the mother had risk factors for deep vein thrombosis, every precaution was taken to prevent bleeding. Tracheostomy Needed to Bypass Airway Blockage The pediatric otolaryngology team completes a tracheostomy. One of the biggest challenges posed prior to Aydin’s birth was not fully understanding the extent of his airway blockage. Through in utero imaging, it was determined that the airway opening was completely blocked. Once Aydin was born, the pediatric otolaryngology team quickly bypassed the blockage by placing a tracheostomy, successfully providing the intervention to complete the delivery. ECMO Required to Support Heart Recovery ECMO support is initiated. Moments after the EXIT, it was clear the baby’s heart was not recovering. Examination revealed a pneumothorax. His belly was also expanding, creating pressure on the heart and lungs. The surgical team initiated ECMO to support cardiopulmonary function and laparotomy to relieve the pressure. Additional Surgeries Needed Aydin is wheeled into the NICU, where he will spend the next 169 days overcoming obstacles and hitting milestones. Once Aydin was stable, the team made a final discovery—Aydin had an anorectal malformation. The infant underwent several additional surgeries, including surgery to correct a congenital heart defect. Scott M. Rickert, MD, is chief of the Division of Pediatric Otolaryngology and a co-director of the Pediatric Aerodigestive Center. He is also an associate professor of pediatrics, plastic surgery, and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His interests include pediatric airway, voice, and swallowing, and the development of simulation software and devices. More Powerful AI to Unravel Neurological Mysteries In one component of a landmark program to integrate artificial intelligence (AI) into clinical practice, neuroscientists will harness some of the world’s most powerful computing technologies. The AI computing platform, developed by neurosurgeon , will be unique among neuroscience departments in the United States. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days.” “The new system will yield 7-times higher performance gains compared to previous generation systems,” says Dr. Oermann. “Research cycles that once took weeks will be finished in days—we’re able to accelerate the time to insight.” A Next Generation System Leveraging servers and hardware that are a major leap forward over previous systems, the system will deliver unprecedented computational power, reliability, and a configurable graphics processing unit topology, says Dr. Oermann. Among other applications, his research team will use the enhanced support for data and algorithms to replicate parts of human brain function in silico The leap in computing power could have immediate impact supporting AI models to help global medical teams fight COVID-19 , says Dr. Oermann. The new system was fully implemented in December 2021. Dr. Oermann’s team partners together experts from mathematics, computer science, neuroscience, informatics, linguistics, and medicine, among a range of specialties. Clinical Applications The AI research directly augments Dr. Oermann’s clinical work in treating neurological disorders and cancer, showing how machine learning investigations can become machine learning-guided interventions. one project , his team is investigating the application of AI to surgical endoscopy. “A major drawback of early endoscopy was the lack of depth perception arising from two-dimensional (2D) vision,” says Oermann. While modern three-dimensional (3D) stereo endoscopes exist, they cannot be miniaturized to the same degree as 2D endoscopes and suffer from a smaller field of view , rendering them unusable for some surgeries, he says. Dr. Oermann’s team is now using 3D glasses or a head-mounted virtual reality display combined with a deep neural network to effectively recreate 3D depth perception for the operating surgeon. Based on promising early results, Dr. Oermann believes that the enhanced endoscopic imaging has the potential to further democratize minimally invasive surgery. “The use of advanced surgical technology could help to increase access to quality surgical care for poorer communities.” This is one of many advancements ahead, he says. “We anticipate that our findings will be transferable to a range of problems across medicine and other domains.” Treating the Most Complex Airways Cases Aerodigestive Society leader discusses optimizing care for children with challenging conditions. Sentinel Node Biopsy: Lessening Surgical Burden in Oral Cancer Treatment New trial could offer evidence backing alternative to neck dissection. Multinerve Transfer Technique Improves Facial Reanimation Patients experience less synkinesis, better functional outcomes. Revision Cochlear Implant Surgery:Readying for a Growing Need While revision cochlear implant (CI) surgery has been relatively uncommon, occurring at rates ranging from 4 to 10 percent , it can be expected to increase in importance as more devices implanted over the past several decades age into failure. The most common indication is hard failure, but soft failures, infection and wound complications, improper initial placement, and electrode migration or extrusion can also require a revision procedure. “These are man-made devices, so the electronics can fail for various reasons. We are often talking about devices that were placed 30 or 40 years ago,” says Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery in NYU Langone Health’s Experts in the at NYU Langone Health have been performing revision surgery for decades. In a recent retrospective review of revision CI surgeries at the center (publication forthcoming), they found that the revision procedures led to similar clinical outcomes as the original implants. They reviewed 100 surgeries in 83 patients from 2011 to 2020. When available, intraoperative X-rays were independently reviewed by an experienced otologist to determine angular depth of insertion of the CI electrode. “Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away.” “One of the concerns in these revisions is that there may be significant fibrosis. Once you remove the very thin electrode, one challenge is to ensure we get a new device back into that one tiny opening again—the scar tissue must be cleared away,” Dr. Jethanamest says. “We wanted to examine our surgery characteristics and evaluate the outcomes.” Importance of Surgical Imaging The center’s unique approach to surgical imaging developed over the years has been essential to its success with revision procedures, Dr. Jethanamest explains. “We take X-rays of the cochlear implant while we’re still in surgery. We try to capture the implant and its coil to ensure it is in the right position and it’s holding the right shape. Based on those X-rays, we can use a technique to calculate the angular insertion depth.” Before surgery, the surgical team establishes a comprehensive plan including technique, the best approach, and the appropriate device. “We have to remove the original device safely to ensure we don’t encounter any issues with local structures. Once we’ve replaced the electrode, we perform that X-ray and neurophysiologic tests to confirm that the implant is in position.” Choosing Replacement Implants Additionally, the team has found there are nuances in choosing a new CI device for revision surgery, notes Dr. Jethanamest. “We try to match up a modern device with one that has been working well, and we take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces. The patient’s brain has adapted to a particular device, sometimes since childhood. Is it easy to do it again many years later? We don’t know.” “We take care to think about the dimensions of contemporary electrodes and how they will fit in the existing spaces.” Much of the new technology comes in the external pieces, Dr. Jethanamest says, and the manufacturers typically support their legacy devices. “For the most part, replacing a device with something similar seems to work out well, even if there is brand new technology and programming algorithms with the newer devices. Surgically, finding the right size and fit and getting the electrode back into position is our main goal.” Planning for an Increase in Patient Needs Dr. Jethanamest and his team aim to catalogue and review the different types of electrodes and how they perform over time, including new devices that continually become smaller and smarter. “For now, they are around 1 millimeter in diameter,” he says. “The question is, someday, when one of the slim ones fails, will we have even slimmer ones or different form factors altogether? Maybe something a little more rigid would help, but the flexible ones work as long as you can get the right anatomic exposure.” The researchers have also just completed a study, collaborating with colleagues in radiology, to evaluate a protocol for optimizing image quality and reducing the associated artifact of MRI in patients with CIs. Daniel Jethanamest, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery. His research interests include cochlear implantation, speech perception, hearing loss, and acoustic neuromas. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ This September, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting and OTO Experience in Philadelphia. This year’s program featured over 400 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Forward Together On September 11, 2022, Max April, MD Erich Voigt, MD , hosted live from the convention on SiriusXM’s . Featured guests included: 2 p.m.: Zara Patel, MD, (Stanford Health) discussed developments in the treatment of anosmia, sinus problems, and other post-COVID-19 illnesses. 2:30 p.m.: A talk with Ken Yanagisawa, MD, (AAO-HNSF President) and J. Thomas Roland. Jr., MD , brought us the latest discoveries in cochlear implants. 3 p.m.: Michael J. Rutter, MD, (Cincinnati Children’s Hospital) reviewed new advancements in pediatric otolaryngology. 3:30 p.m.: James C. Denneny III, MD, (Executive Vice President/CEO of AAO-HNSF) and colleagues presented the World Sinus Health Awareness Panel. Below are notable sessions from the conference featuring our faculty and fellows (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Sunday, September 11 Oral Presentation Adjuvant Radiotherapy in Moderately Advanced (T3) Oral Cavity Cancers Speakers: Babak Givi, MD , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS; Ronald Wang, BS; Alec Vaezi, MD , clinical associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 114LC Advanced Cochlear Implantation: Obstructed and Malformed Speaker: , Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 115B Discrepancies in Prices of FDA-Approved Agents for Head and Neck Cancer , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 126A Video Presentation World Sinus Health Awareness Location: 122AB Monday, September 12 Long-Term Outcomes Following Prolonged Mechanical Ventilation for COVID-19 Milan Amin, MD , professor; Tyler Crosby , fellow; Paul Kwak, MD , assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 119B Otologic Adverse Events Due to Teprotumumab: A Prospective Assessment of 35 Patients Tuesday, September 13 , professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Facial Reanimation After Intratemporal Facial Nerve Schwannoma Resection: A Meta-Analysis David Friedmann, MD , associate professor; Judy Lee, MD , clinical associate professor; Antonios Varelas, MD , postgraduate year four resident, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 121AB Quantifying Facial Movement in Facial Palsy Patients Using Iphone Truedepth Technology , associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Wednesday, September 14 Measurement of Upper Airway Volume in Children with Craniofacial Abnormalities Leena Asfour, MD , chief resident; Alex Gordon, BS; Scott Rickert, MD , clinical assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 107AB Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer A schematic of the precision two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) protocol used in the study. Radiation oncologists at NYU Langone Health’s have pioneered a novel approach to treating localized prostate cancer that uses genomic classification of the tumor and radiographic data to personalize two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). A recently launched phase 1/1B clinical study Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD , medical director at NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan , aims to evaluate the therapy, which can be delivered in as little as one week. Current five-fraction protocols are commonly delivered over nine weeks. A unique aspect of the approach is the ability to combine genetic profiling of the patient’s tumor with multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) to personalize treatment and deliver the requisite dosage of radiation. From a tumor biopsy, the team can assess whether the patient is low, intermediate, or high risk, and direct the appropriate dose of radiation to specific areas of concern using mpMRI. “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients.” “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We are optimistic that long-term oncological outcomes can be improved by utilizing this approach.” The two-fraction study, which is only offered at two locations, in Manhattan and at Perlmutter Cancer Center on Long Island, is open to patients with low- to intermediate-risk prostate cancer. “Studies have shown that having nine weeks of radiation therapy is the most financially burdensome of any type of treatment for prostate cancer,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We’re trying to reduce that burden by moving people into a shorter course of treatment while simultaneously genetically and radiologically personalizing cancer care using a treatment technique pioneered here at NYU Langone.” Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD, is an assistant professor of radiation oncology, medical director of NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan, and director of research in the Department of Radiation Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in treating prostate, lung, brain, and spine cancer using CyberKnife radiosurgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) annual meeting in San Diego. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows. Selective therapeutic antibodies against oncogenic mutations of the HER2 extracellular region LBPO.ET01 – Late-Breaking Research: Experimental and Molecular Therapeutics 1 Injin Bang, PhD Senior Author: 1:30–5:00PM Hepatocytes compensate for the loss of PHGDH in pancreatic cancer cells during liver metastasis Session PO.TB11.12 – Pancreatic Cancer Microenvironment Koelina Ganguly, MD 9:00AM–12:30PM Minisymposium TNG260, a small molecule CoREST inhibitor, sensitizes STK11-mutant NSCLC to anti-PD1 immunotherapy Session MS.IM01.02 – Immune Targets and Therapies Ayushi Patel, PhD Kwok-Kin Wong, MD, PhD 3:05–3:20PM A novel mouse model reveals potential therapeutic strategies for RIT1-driven lung adenocarcinomas MS.MCB03.01 – Novel Mechanisms of Oncogenesis and New Therapeutic Targets Alessandro Mauro Mozzarelli, PhD Pau Castel, PhD 3:20–3:35PM Tuesday, April 9 Topographical investigation of metabolites in excised squares (TIMES2): Comprehensive cross-sectional metabolite quantification of pancreatic cancer in vivo PO.MCB09.03 – Metabolomics Peter Yu, MD 9:00AM-12:30PM Oral microbiome and subsequent risk for head and neck squamous cell cancer development MS.PS01.01 – Molecular Epidemiology Soyoung Kwak, PhD Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD 3:35–3:50PM The gut microbiome is associated with recurrence free survival in patients with resected Stage III or Stage IV melanoma treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors Session PO.CL01.10 – Predictive Biomarkers 5 Mykhaylo Usyk, PhD candidate Jiyoung Ahn, PhD Wednesday, April 10 Major Symposium Cancer Metabolism Across Scales: From Organelles to Organisms 10:15–11:45AM Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice Advances in Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) over the past several decades have allowed cancer patients with multiple brain metastases to be treated using single or multiple fractions of radiation therapy. NYU Langone Health utilizes specialized Gamma Knife® SRS , and is a world leader in clinical and research application of this technology. “Our experts treat more over 600 patients each year using SRS, making NYU Langone one of the highest volume centers in the United States,” says Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD , an associate professor radiation oncology and neurosurgery who specializes in brain cancer. As few prior studies using SRS had included patients with larger numbers of brain metastases, Dr. Silverman and colleagues including , a professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery, have undertaken several studies evaluating the use of Gamma Knife SRS in patients with ≥25 brain metastases—a population traditionally associated with poor prognosis. “For patients with multiple brain metastases, particularly in subsets that can be treated successfully with immunotherapy, or molecular targeted agents, these patients can often live for years.” Hippocampal Sparing with SRS In a recent dosimetric analysis of prospective registry data, they identified 89 patients treated with SRS for ≥25 brain metastases in single or multiple sessions. They analyzed the distribution of metastases relative to the hippocampal avoidance (HA)-region and hippocampi (HC), and measured the incidence of perihippocampal tumor location. Doses from each session were summed to calculate HC dose. Among the 89 patients, the median number of tumors irradiated per patient was 33 (range 25-116), delivered in a median of 3 (range 1-12) sessions. HC doses were significantly correlated with the tumor number and volume. Of 3,059 total treated tumors, 83 (2.7 percent) were located in the HA-region, affecting 57 percent of patients. The researchers also reported that 38 tumors (1.2 percent) abutted or involved the HC itself. “There may be improvement in neurocognitive outcomes with hippocampal sparing using SRS rather than hippocampal avoidance whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) techniques,” Dr. Silverman says. “Patients who receive WBRT often experience neurocognitive side effects, including short term memory loss and deficits in expressive language skills, shortly after treatment—SRS affords hippocampal sparing.” Prolonging Survival for Patients with Brain Metastases Dr. Silverman notes given more patients and brain metastases are being treated with SRS alone, it is important to understand how patient, tumor, and treatment factors affect functional status and overall survival. In a second study, the researchers examined survival outcomes and dosimetry to critical structures in 95 patients treated with Gamma Knife SRS for ≥25 metastases. They reported the median number of SRS sessions per patient was 3 (range 1-12), with nearly all patients (98%) having more than one session. On univariate analysis, factors significantly affecting overall survival included histology, tumor volume, tumor number, diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment, brain metastasis velocity, and need for subsequent WBRT. Results showed that in selected patients with a large number of cumulative brain metastases, multiple courses of SRS are feasible and safe. “Together with new systemic therapies, we observed survival rates that compare favorably to larger contemporary cohorts, while avoiding WBRT in most patients,” Dr. Silverman says. “Our findings support SRS as a standard practice in selected patients with larger numbers of brain metastases.” Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery. His research aims to improve survival and quality of life for patients with brain cancer. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Blocking a chemokine signaling pathway keeps immune fighters from escaping into lymphatic vessels. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors Researchers who identified amino acid transporter key to tumor growth are seeking inhibitors to target it. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes A neuroimmuno-oncology expert draws attention to complex neurological symptoms related to cancer and immunotherapies. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease Investigation into how cells use oxygen sparks new insights into multiple diseases, including a newly recognized neurological disorder. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID Leigh E. Charvet, MD 6 percent of adults in the United States are currently experiencing post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), also known as “long COVID.” To treat the syndrome’s neurologic symptoms, some researchers are investigating transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), an experimental therapy that has been used successfully to mitigate cognitive, motor, speech, and mood problems that can occur in a wide range of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. To date, however, only a few small clinical trials of tDCS in patients with PASC have been completed. The NIH recently launched a larger study that aims, in part, to clarify the method’s utility. The RECOVER-NEURO trial is testing tDCS alongside other interventions for cognitive dysfunction related to long COVID, including brain fog, memory deficits, and difficulties with attention and problem-solving. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction.” The phase 2 clinical trial will evaluate a web-based brain training program, BrainHQ, both alone and in tandem with tDCS or PASC-Cognitive Recovery, a web-based goal-management training program for people with PASC. BrainHQ will also be tested against an active comparator (video games) and paired with sham tDCS using devices from the manufacturer. These therapies will be administered via telehealth to patients across the United States under the supervision of co-principal investigator at NYU Langone Health and a leading researcher of tDCS’s potential for treating PASC. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction,” Dr. Charvet notes. Applying Findings from Multiple Sclerosis Over the past decade, Dr. Charvet has pioneered the use of home-based cognitive rehabilitation for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). She was an early adopter of BrainHQ, whose efficacy she helped establish through clinical trials. Adding tDCS to that regimen, she found, significantly enhanced its cognitive impacts—a discovery that led her to shift her research focus to expanding the use of tDCS to reach patients at home through telehealth. The method has shown promise for patients with MS, stroke, Parkinson’s disease, and many other conditions, improving cognitive and motor symptoms, for instance, and also as a treatment for depression. “Imaging studies show that functional targeting with tDCS can strengthen neuroplasticity and increase blood flow in the brain,” she explains. “This can translate to a wide range of clinical benefits.” In 2019, Dr. Charvet began offering tDCS via telehealth to patients across the United States . The following year, when the COVID-19 pandemic struck, people with PASC started calling the clinic, asking if they could try tDCS. “They were just desperate for treatment,” Dr. Charvet recalls. She and her team worked with patients with PASC and their referring physicians to design remote treatment protocols, sparing COVID long-haulers—who were often experiencing severe debilitation—the necessity of office visits. “Our goal is to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life.” Anecdotally, the initial results were promising. “Our patients told us they were getting better,” Dr. Charvet says. Since then, she and her team have expanded both the clinical tDCS Program and their research efforts. Dr. Charvet has collaborated with colleagues at NYU Langone and elsewhere on preliminary studies of tDCS for PASC, which suggest that the method, paired with rehabilitation programs, can reduce fatigue and anxiety improve cognitive functions in people with the syndrome. She also helped design the protocol for the RECOVER-NEURO trial—part of the NIH’s RECOVER initiative, which strives to understand the biological processes driving long COVID and to identify effective treatments. Colleague , director of NYU Langone’s heart failure program, is principal investigator of the RECOVER Clinical Science Core. Seeking Answers with a Nationwide Trial RECOVER-NEURO will enroll a target of 315 patients from centers across the United States to its five arms, Dr. Charvet says. Once enrolled, participants will be referred to NYU Langone, which will centrally deliver the interventions to patients at home using their established telehealth protocols. Each participant will have five, 30-minute telehealth sessions per week for 10 weeks. The trial’s primary objective is to evaluate each intervention’s effect on cognitive function versus a comparator. “Our goal,” says Dr. Charvet, “is to be able to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life and enable them to return to their responsibilities at home and at work.” Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Clinical predictive models can help physicians and administrators forecast hospital readmission and other healthcare factors, influencing decisions about patient care. While existing computer models rely on structured data neatly organized in tables, the resources required to organize data from clinical notes have made it challenging to deploy models in real time. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) with large language models (LLMs) have the potential to resolve this by using an LLM to read and interpret physicians’ clinical notes. study recently published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used unstructured clinical notes to train NYUTron, a medical LLM, on 10 years of system-wide electronic health records (EHRs). The tool—currently in use in NYU Langone hospitals to predict the chances that a patient who is discharged will be readmitted within a month—is being trained for a wide range of other tasks. The study is the first application of an LLM successfully deployed in real time in a clinical setting. “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the LLM to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it.” “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the language model to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it,” says , senior author on the study. Real-Time Predictions For the study, the researchers evaluated five predictive tasks: 30-day all-cause readmission, in-hospital mortality, comorbidity index, length of stay, and insurance denial. Across the five tasks, NYUTron had an area under the curve (AUC) of 78.7 to 94.9 percent, with an improvement of 5.36 to 14.7 percent in the AUC compared with traditional models. “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist.” “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist. Or they do, but NYUTron works better, because the model is exposed to things that existing predictive models cannot access,” says Dr. Oermann. LLMs for Medical Use LLMs are most famous for their generative capacities in tools like ChatGPT. Beyond generative AI, they include a wide range of functionalities, including the ability to read and make meaning of data. Instead of generating content, NYUTron reads, interprets, and utilizes existing notes written by physicians in the EHR to make predictions. This advancement allows researchers to build a comprehensive picture of a patient’s medical state to make more-accurate predictions that inform patient care. The study had four steps: data collection, pretraining, fine-tuning, and deployment. Data included 7.25 million clinical notes from over 387,000 patients across four hospitals. This resulted in a 4.1-billion-word dataset, NYU Notes, that captures data from January 2011 to May 2020. Relative to many industry LLMs, this is a small dataset. The promising results from the study indicate the potential of research with smaller, more focused LLMs as opposed to generative models pretrained on large, nonspecific datasets. 30-Day Readmission Of the five areas researchers examined, the 30-day readmission prediction was the one they highlighted, “mainly due to the historical significance,” says Dr. Oermann. “People have been trying to predict 30-day readmission since the 1980s.” Real-world patient outcomes are tied to 30-day readmissions, making it significant for patients, clinicians, and hospital administrators. Researchers deployed NYUTron in real time to assess how well it predicted 30-day readmission against six physicians. NYUTron performed better than physicians and against other LLMs that were not pretrained on clinical notes. Generalizability Across Hospitals Developing and training AI models that retain performance across locations and medical populations has been a challenge with AI in healthcare. “With our experiments, as expected, there was a performance drop between , because the patient populations are different,” Dr. Oermann says. “We salvaged the performance drop by fine-tuning the model locally.” Beyond the five tasks evaluated in the study, the research team is working on around a hundred potential new tasks for the LLM to evaluate with the help of the Predictive Analytics Unit at NYU Langone. Additionally, the researchers are developing a consortium to share these techniques with other academic medical centers. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit The global prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is approximately 25 percent , but can rise rapidly in the context of additional risk factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. NAFLD can be histologically divided into non-alcoholic fatty liver (isolated hepatic steatosis) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Research suggests that the stage of liver fibrosis is the most important determinant of patient outcomes and mortality. “Patients with NASH and advanced hepatic fibrosis are at significant risk for liver-related complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma, end-stage liver disease, and the need for liver transplantation,” says hepatology director Ira M. Jacobson, MD. For affected patients, Dr. Jacobson describes several strategies that can promote timely diagnosis, plus new treatments on the horizon. Non-invasive Diagnosis Non-invasive tests , including blood tests and imaging modalities, have emerged as useful techniques to diagnose and stage NAFLD. Since clinical presentation is often non-specific, patients are not suspected of having liver disease until they develop late stage cirrhosis, Dr. Jacobson says. “Patients may have had years of minimally elevated alanine aminotransferase levels, that were not recognized as potentially portending progressive liver disease. Only a small proportion of cases are identified in the primary care setting.” While liver biopsy remains the gold standard in diagnosing and predicting the severity of NAFLD, there are drawbacks including its inherent invasiveness and significant sampling variability Among a variety of blood-based parameters, the Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4) is simple and can be used to diagnose and stage fibrosis. FIB-4 can be easily calculated online in less than a minute using common laboratory findings combined with the patient’s age. It has well established cutoff values for predicting the presence or absence of advanced scarring or cirrhosis, although indeterminate values may occur. maging modalities , such as vibration-controlled transient elastography, supersonic shear imaging, and magnetic resonance elastography can help quantify the degree of scarring, Jacobson says. “Radiographic evaluation using elastography to determine the degree of fibrosis is based on liver stiffness, a property that is conferred by scar tissue.” New Drugs To date, no drugs have been FDA-approved for the treatment of NAFLD, although several are under investigation, with multiple trials ongoing at NYU Langone A key goal of pharmalogic therapy is to promote weight loss, particularly in those who fail to achieve their goals through diet and exercise alone. One drug class, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) agonists, is used extensively in diabetic patients and works in substantial part by inducing weight loss. “The recent approval of the first GLP1 agonist specifically for weight loss was an important advance,” explains Jacobson. “GLP1 agonists alone or in combination with other agents are being studied for NAFLD in ongoing clinical trials.” Additional drug classes under investigation include farnesoid X peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor receptor agonists, FGF19 and FGF21 analogs thyroid hormone receptor beta-selective agonists “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Ira M. Jacobson, MD “Currently, there are over 50 investigational drugs being evaluated in NAFLD,” says Jacobson. “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Hepatology, Gastroenterology Ira M. Jacobson, MD, is a professor of medicine and serves as director of hepatology. He is a recognized expert in the treatment of liver disease, including viral hepatitis B and C and other liver conditions. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The field of neurosurgery has made rapid advances in recent decades, propelled by innovations in imaging and surgical navigation, as well as forward movement in new surgical techniques. Still, the greatest era of innovation may be ahead with the rise of artificial intelligence (AI), big data, and related technologies. To learn more about the potential future of neurosurgery research, spoke with , the current editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery Publications , and its flagship journal, . Dr. Kondziolka is one of the world’s leading neurosurgeons with a clinical and research focus in stereotactic radiosurgery and has played an active leadership role in disseminating neurosurgical research internationally. He served as associate editor of the before assuming the editorship of Taking the Helm As you became editor-in-chief of in 2022, what has been your vision for the journal itself? Dr. Kondziolka: Being one of the world’s preeminent journals of neurosurgical research, we want to continue attracting the very best content. That not only means evaluating articles and getting quality reviews back to the authors quickly, but also being at the forefront in disseminating information through different media forms—video content, podcasts, and also providing articles in audio format. One of my visions is to make quality science accessible globally—and by that I mean accessible not just among the scientific community, but also to a public who may not be so versed in English. We now have a platform called Neurosurgery Speaks , which offers translated audio abstracts in nearly a dozen different languages. I hope the journal continues advancing more multilingual options. Big Data’s Impact on Research Looking at the current state of neurosurgical research, what are the most prominent trends? Sophisticated data analysis is increasingly informing neurosurgical research. As part of this focus on data analytics, there’s a growing interest in having large datasets to work with. But those aren’t easy to obtain: No single institution has the ability to put together data on thousands of brain tumors, for instance. So, there’s a strong emphasis right now on establishing national data registries through the National Institutes of Health and other national and international organizations. There is a related push to incorporate greater detail into patient records. Fortunately, electronic health record (EHR) systems are making it much easier by enabling high-quality, point-of-care data collection that also tracks patient outcomes longitudinally. We’re building these systems here at NYU Langone, and others are doing it as well. At the same time, researchers and technology companies are developing better ways to extract data from EHRs using natural language processing and other means. “Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time.” Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time. Where are the advances in data having the greatest impact today? One area is the interpretation of imaging. An entirely new field now exists, radiomics, that uses AI to understand imaging results. An MRI scan image actually contains hundreds of pieces of information, most of which the human brain can’t see—but a computer can. There’s even work underway on analytic techniques for identifying the genetic makeup of tumors and other diseases based on imaging. As this science develops, we’ll be able to learn much more about the nature and progression of diseases from various types of scans, which in turn will impact how we deal with them surgically. In my own specialty of radiosurgery, we recently finished an extensive analysis of acoustic neuroma cases that showed hearing loss outcomes were the same in patients who had their tumors removed with radiosurgery and patients who didn’t get treatment, but instead had the tumor observed. Previously, we thought hearing was more likely to be spared in the observed group, so this finding changes that thinking. “It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic.” Recently, our own program at NYU Langone released the world’s largest imaging and clinical dataset on brain metastases care, called NYU Mets , for open access research. It includes serial images and clinical information during the course of care, with segmented brain tumor volumes to assess response. It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic. The Future of Spinal and Cerebrovascular Neurosurgery What advances are most impacting your specific areas of cerebrovascular and spinal neurosurgery? With cerebrovascular neurosurgery, the field is advancing all the time—especially around endovascular approaches to stroke care and aneurysm treatments. New devices are constantly being developed to repair aneurysms more gently and reduce stroke risks. From a research standpoint, there are many studies being done in this area involving our department and others across the country. Once again, much of that research comes back to using data analysis to determine how we can best manage these conditions more effectively and safely. Regarding spine, given our aging population in the United States, the surgical treatment of spinal degenerative deformity is certainly an important area. There’s a good deal of interest in helping older individuals stand straighter and maintain healthy spinal function as they age. Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis Imaging upon presentation demonstrates complete lateral subluxation of T4 on T5 as seen on anteroposterior X-ray (A) and corneal CT (B). MRI showed severe spinal cord compression at the junction of the subluxation (C and D). A Spontaneous Subluxation When a 17-year-old, neurologically normal male patient diagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and scoliosis experienced an extremely rare complication—a complete spontaneous lateral subluxation of his T4 and T5 vertebrae, dislocating the spine and compressing the spinal cord—a carefully planned intervention leveraging the most advanced surgical techniques and intraoperative imaging offered hope of restored mobility and a return to sports. The young male had been followed for his scoliosis and was an established patient at NYU Langone Health’s . With the sudden and atypical spinal dislocation, he was referred to Darryl Lau, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and spinal deformity at NYU Langone. Dr. Lau confirmed that for such a high degree of spinal instability and spinal cord compression, intervention was urgent to preserve the patient’s neurologic function. “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. . . . [S]uch complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. Combination of tumor growth, dural ectasia, and likely other unknown factors result in bony changes leading to instability,” Dr. Lau explains. “You would rarely see this severe of a fracture even with trauma, and such complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” A Rare Case for Surgery Surgical treatment for NF1 dystrophic scoliosis is extremely challenging due to abnormal bony anatomy (inability to gain adequate spinal fixation), dural ectasia resulting in cerebrospinal fluid leak, and the need for tumor resection. After first attempting to realign the spine through halo gravity traction and seeing only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, Dr. Lau and a multidisciplinary team planned a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction. While resection of the widespread tumor tissue typically observed in NF1 is not a primary goal of these procedures, notes Dr. Lau, significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. Due to the volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine, which had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies and likely contributed to the translocation, the surgical team had to forego pedicle screws and instead employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine. The intricate spacing of screws would have been impossible without NYU Langone’s advanced intraoperative CT and navigation systems, notes Dr. Lau. Although vertebral column resections are typically reserved for the most severe deformities as this technique involves intricate work around the spinal cord and nerves, in this case both T4 and T5 were removed to facilitate complete reduction and achieve alignment. Improving Patient Outcomes Patients with NF1 having complex spinal reconstructions need to be carefully monitored for pseudarthrosis and mechanical failure years down the line, but this patient is recovering well, says Dr. Lau. His team’s combination of ever-expanding surgical expertise and new intraoperative technologies is allowing the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center to take on a growing number of patients whose complex scoliosis, spinal tumors, and their concomitant effects would have once been inoperable, he notes. A Rigid Deformity Despite five weeks of traction, there was minimal to no reduction or movement of the T4 and T5 subluxation. Pre-traction (A) and post-traction (B) images are shown. Dr. Lau first recommended an attempt to realign the spine through halo gravity traction in the hope of offering a less invasive surgery. However, after five weeks in the hospital having traction, the patient exhibited only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, and a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction was scheduled. Tumor Prevents Traditional Fixation CT scan showing dysmorphic vertebrae and dysplastic pedicle that are noncontiguous with the corresponding vertebral bodies. Significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. The volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies, likely contributing to the translocation. Typically, pedicle screws are inserted in order to fixate, stabilize, and reduce the scoliotic spine into place. However, this patient’s bone had been worn too thin. Vertebral Column Resection Intraoperative photo of the final construct following scoliosis and subluxation correction with decompression of the spinal cord. Construct spans C7 to T10 with hybrid fixation of laminar bands (black arrows) and pedicle screws. The surgical team employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine, strategically interspersing screws where supportive bone was available. In this case, both T4 and T5 were removed to completely disconnect the spinal column to facilitate complete reduction and achieve perfect alignment. The looped bands and screws were used to pull the spine back into a normal position. Direct Spine Realignment Postoperative X-rays show construct from C7 to T10. Patient is now well aligned with complete reduction of subluxation and correction of scoliosis. With postoperative X-ray confirming direct realignment of the spine, the patient completed a brief inpatient stay without complications and walked out of the hospital to return home to recover. His neurologic function remained intact. Neurosurgery, Pediatric Neurosurgery, Spine Surgery Darryl Lau, MD, is an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and adult spinal deformity at NYU Langone. He specializes in complex spine, scoliosis, spinal deformity, revision surgery, spinal oncology, and spinal reconstruction and was dual fellowship-trained in both adult and pediatric neurosurgery and orthopedic surgery. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AANS Annual Scientific Meeting This year, physicians representing the Department of Neurosurgery at NYU Langone Health gave speeches, presented cases, led panel discussions, and facilitated courses at the annual meeting of the American Association of Neurological Surgeons. View full conference information here. Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Friday, April 29 Course Practical Clinic 205 Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director: Saturday, April 30 Abstract Discussant: A Multi-center Study of Intra-operative, in Vivo, Optics-based Detection of Brain Tumor Tissue Using Raman Spectroscopy and Machine Learning Discussant: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Monday, May 2 Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Session Abstract Session Moderator: Speaker Session Intra-operative Histology & AI Image Analysis Community Speaker: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Socioeconomic Rapid Fire Session 485 – Influence of Healthcare Disparities on Outcomes for Spinal Metastasis Patients Case Presentation and Panel Discussion Transvenous AVM Treatment, CSF-venous Fistulae, MMA Embo for CSDH, ICH, Venous Stenting for IIH, DVST Panel Discussion/Q&A Interesting Cases Community Panelist: Daniel A. Orringer, MD Cerebrovascular Abstract Session Abstract Session Moderator: Erez Nossek, MD Panel Discussion Session VII, Panel II: Treatment of Middle Cerebral and Basilar Tip Aneurysms Discussant: Howard A. Riina, MD In One Day, Surgeons Resect Tumor, Restore Hearing, and Initiate Facial Reanimation in NF2 Patient SOURCE: NYU Langone Simplifying Surgery For a Complex Clinical Picture With neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), aggressive tumor growth can result in a complex clinical portrait including facial paralysis and partial or complete hearing loss. Typically, surgical treatment for advanced cases might include three or more separate surgeries to remove the tumor(s), place an auditory brainstem implant (ABI) or cochlear implant (CI), and reanimate the facial nerves. When a patient with NF2 experiencing symptom escalation—including total hearing loss and facial paralysis—was referred to the , a team co-led by , chair of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery, targeted an ambitious goal: achieving tumor resection, hearing restoration, and facial nerve reanimation in a single surgery. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” “Once this patient could no longer communicate or control her facial function, it became clear that the tumor was aggressive enough to warrant action,” Dr. Roland says. “I wasn’t sure it had ever been done before. But the patient was ready to move toward recovery, so she opted for the single procedure.” Integrating the patient’s surgical needs into a single-day procedure required orchestration between neurosurgery, neurotology, audiology, plastic surgery, and facial reanimation specialists. “The teamwork between our neurosurgeon and neurotologist allows us to tackle the most difficult tumors with confidence,“ says , chair of the Department of Neurosurgery. “Based on our extensive experience in NF2 within neurosurgery and ENT, it’s unlikely to encounter anything we haven’t seen before.” The team successfully performed the tandem procedure, removing the patient’s tumor, restoring her hearing, and reinnervating her facial movement. Her quality of life has returned far sooner than would have been possible through multiple surgeries. A Symptomatic, Treatment-Refractory Tumor The patient experienced single-sided deafness after undergoing a prior surgery at another center for a right-sided vestibular schwannoma (pre-surgery photo shown). Sudden symptom escalation prompted her to seek urgent consultation, and a single, complex surgery was planned to treat tumor recurrence. Phase One, Tumor Resection, Complete With the tumor resected, Dr. Roland applied a technique he pioneered, facial-to-hypoglossal neurorrhaphy with parotid release. He dissected the distal portion of the facial nerve and released the parotid gland, then connected the facial nerve to another adjacent nerve. The approach reduces the number of needed anastomoses, which eliminates half available nerve fibers. The facial reanimation team, composed of head and neck and facial plastic surgeons, completed a number of other nerve transfers to the facial nerve using a technique they have pioneered. Auditory Brainstem Implant Successfully Placed While a CI can be placed if there is an appearance of functioning cochlear nerve, the tumor had grown so rapidly that it compromised the cochlear and facial nerves, indicating an ABI would be more effective. The patient’s auditory brainstem responses were assessed by William Shapiro, AUD , co-director of the , to ensure adequate ABI paddle placement. Building Implantable Tech for Real-Time Seizure Data Prototype implantable devices are moving into development, with the potential to fill major knowledge gaps in epilepsy research by offering real-time, state-of-the-art seizure monitoring. Nearly one-third of patients living with epilepsy experience persistent, intractable seizures that do not respond to medication. The new technology could peel back the curtain about why this occurs. “We now have the opportunity to build a new, ultrathin implantable device that can have thousands of measurement contacts instead of dozens,” says professor , co-director of the video electroencephalogram laboratory and member of the Prototype Successes The implant—a flexible, liquid crystal polymer surrounding hundreds of thousands of electrodes—was developed via an expansive public-private partnership that recently earned $8 million from the NIH’s Brain Research Through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies® (BRAIN) Initiative. The funding will be shared between NYU’s Center for Neural Science , Duke University, the University of Utah, and Blackrock Neurotech. The collaborative team has already developed and tested several prototypes capable of collecting neural data directly before, during, and after seizures. Their most recent iteration was successfully implanted and tested intraoperatively for up to 30 minutes in dozens of patients across the institutions. The researchers report their brain-machine interface achieves “25× higher electrode density, 20× higher channel count, and 11× reduced stiffness than conventional clinical electrodes.” Further Development, Plus a Clinic Trial With the new NIH support, the team will develop a further refined version of the device that can be implanted for up to 30 days. They anticipate the device will enable high-density sampling across multiple brain regions. A phase I clinical trial will follow initial testing, during which Dr. Friedman will serve as a site principal investigator. The overarching goal is to capture a high-definition picture of brain microsignals that occur moments before epileptic seizures. Such data have been previously unobtainable, and are a critical step toward neurostimulative therapies designed to prevent debilitating seizures in patients with epilepsy. Says Dr. Friedman, “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” “Current technology used to capture brain activity related to epileptic seizure is decades old, and has limited our progress in developing new treatments.” A Gateway to New Therapies Indeed, neurostimulation as a potential treatment for neurologic conditions emerged in the 1980s . Since then, treatment options have vastly expanded to include laser ablation, precision surgeries, catheter-based interventions, and more. Similarly, implantable tech has evolved to offer unprecedented benefits . Patients can now control computer systems and even prosthetic devices simply by thinking, Dr. Friedman says. Previous research by Dr. Friedman and others has shown the promise of advanced seizure treatments made possible through implantable devices, including vagus nerve stimulation, responsive neurostimulation, and deep brain stimulation. Data from the implantable devices could open the door for more personalized interventions using these and other modalities for patients with epilepsy. More broadly, the devices could provide critical data to understand exactly why their seizures occur in the first place. A Two-Pronged Pharmaceutic Approach to Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Alzheimer’s disease research has long focused primarily on drugs that may reduce amyloid plaques as a potential treatment. Recently, however, monoclonal antibodies that target tau tangles have also begun to show promise. The decade-old Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer’s Network Trial Unit (DIAN-TU)—an international public–private partnership focused on dominantly inherited Alzheimer’s disease (DIAD)—is currently enrolling participants for its first phase 2/3 trial of such a drug. The Tau NexGen trial, as it is known, is also the first Alzheimer’s disease prevention study to target tau tangles and amyloid plaques with two drugs simultaneously. The global, multicenter trial is testing E2814, an investigational anti-microtubule binding region tau antibody, in conjunction with the FDA-approved anti-amyloid drug lecanemab. “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future.” NYU Langone Health is the only Tau NexGen study site in the New York tristate area, drawing in patients from throughout the region. The site principal investigator is Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Center for Cognitive Neurology “I believe that combination therapeutic approaches to Alzheimer’s disease are the wave of the future,” says Dr. Wisniewski, an internationally recognized expert on amyloid deposition who has contributed to the development of several novel biomarkers and treatments for the disease. “In this disorder, where you have two pathologies—the accumulations of amyloid beta and abnormally phosphorylated tau—it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” A One-Two Punch The Tau NexGen trial includes patients who are both presymptomatic and symptomatic for DIAD. Participants in the former group are cognitively healthy but are biologically characterized as accumulating tau “seeds” in the brain. Symptomatic participants have early cognitive impairment and are characterized by neurofibrillary tangle spread. The trial will assess the safety, tolerability, biomarker, and cognitive efficacy of multiple anti-tau drugs, beginning with E2814. Lecanemab will serve as the “background” anti-amyloid therapy. Presymptomatic patients will be randomly assigned to receive E2814 or a placebo for a year before beginning lecanemab. By staggering the therapies in this manner, the investigators will be able to evaluate the effects of the anti-tau drug alone before assessing the impact of both drugs together. Because amyloid plaques accumulate before tau tangles in Alzheimer’s disease, the study team aims to assess whether amyloid removal clears the way for an anti-tau drug to function most effectively. “In this disorder where you have two pathologies, it’s essential to address both to have a maximum impact.” If the primary and secondary endpoints are shown to be positive after two years, the study will be extended for another two years to assess whether E2814 slows cognitive decline in symptomatic patients and has further effects on tau pathology. Home Field Advantages An unusual aspect of the Tau NexGen trial design is that intravenous medications will be administered in patients’ homes by nurse practitioners and infusion nurses, removing a common barrier to participation. “A big stumbling block for these types of intravenous biologics is the hassle of having to come into an infusion center every few weeks,” Dr. Wisniewski notes. “Home-based care is a big advantage for patients and their families.” An added advantage for the NYU Langone trial site is that, unlike many centers, it has an in-house facility for synthesizing tracers for amyloid and tau PET imaging. “These ligands often have very short half-lives, which can create logistical problems when they have to come from an outside manufacturer,” Dr. Wisniewski says. “Being able to make ours in-house will help us get these potentially beneficial medications to as many patients as possible.” Neuropathology, Dementia & Alzheimer’s Thomas M. Wisniewski, MD, is the Gerald J. and Dorothy R. Friedman Professor of New York University Alzheimer’s Disease Center and director of the Center for Cognitive Neurology. His research interests focus on the mechanisms that drive amyloid deposition in Alzheimer’s and prion diseases. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment David P. Hudesman, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The expansion in therapeutic options for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) means that more patients achieve remission and a smaller proportion require surgery than years past. The challenge now lies in identifying avenues for early intervention and tailoring therapy to optimize response, says David P. Hudesman, MD at NYU Langone Health. “We have multiple different treatment options, a lot more than we had just five years ago, but the challenge today is determining how to pick the right drug for the right patient,” Dr. Hudesman says. Currently, he and NYU Langone colleagues are leading an expansive array of studies—from clinical trials focused on optimizing approved therapies to projects aimed at assembling a suite of medical and surgical risk prediction tools—to drive improvements in treatment along multiple fronts. Optimizing Therapy One trial that recently finished enrollment is a prospective cohort study to identify predictors of response to tofacitinib for patients with ulcerative colitis. Dr. Hudesman, who is serving as the principal investigator, says genetic data, blood immune profiles, stool microbiota, and cellular and molecular profiles of tissue biopsies are all being used to create a treatment response model. Any predictive biomarkers identified will be validated against datasets from larger studies. Another clinical trial led by Dr. Hudesman is evaluating the benefit of higher doses of ustekinumab early in therapy for patients with moderate to severe Crohn’s disease. “The standard dosing is not going to work for all our patients. And if we optimize drugs earlier on, we’re more likely to improve clinical remission rates,” he says. Parallel research from Jordan E. Axelrad, MD, MPH , director of clinical and translational research at the IBD Center, and national collaborators is supporting the use of these effective agents in an expanded patient population. Their initial analysis of data from the prospective SAPPHIRE registry indicates that tofacitinib, ustekinumab and other newer immunosuppressive agents are not associated with new or recurrent cancer in patients with IBD and a recent history of cancer. Predicting Risk Placing focus on IBD in older adults, , an assistant professor of medicine and population health, has found that antibiotic use is a risk factor for adult-onset disease . Older adults represent one of the fastest growing populations of patients developing IBD, with upwards of 15 percent of new cases occurring in individuals over 60. In a study presented at Digestive Disease Week 2022, Dr. Faye and his research team analyzed data from over 2.3 million individuals aged 60 to 90, finding that a single course of antibiotics raises the risk of developing IBD by 27 percent, while five or more courses raises the risk by 236 percent. Almost all antibiotic classes were associated with the development of IBD, but those used for gastrointestinal pathogens were associated with the highest risk. Ongoing research from Dr. Faye and colleagues, including gastroenterologist , is defining sarcopenia as a risk factor for IBD, while Dr. Axelrad recently received funding from the NIH to continue his research on enteric pathogens as environmental factors in IBD Getting Ahead of Complications Investigators at NYU Langone are also researching ways to improve the success of disease-related surgery , which remains an essential treatment option for IBD, and better address extra-intestinal manifestations of the disease A dual-center study between NYU Langone and Cleveland Clinic led by Dr. Axelrad has determined anti-tumor necrosis factor (anti-TNF) agents to be effective at reducing postoperative recurrence of Crohn’s disease when given within four weeks of ileocecal resection. And work led by Simon J. Hong, MD , in collaboration with colleagues within rheumatology finds that two surveys validated for screening joint symptoms are effective at flagging IBD-related arthritis “Across our studies, we are furthering our understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD and its extra-intestinal manifestations, personalizing both medical and surgical treatment, with the hope to bring new insights into prevention of disease,” Dr. Hudesman says. David P. Hudesman, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and co-director of the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Center. His research interests include uncovering new treatment options for people with Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis, development of biomarkers to predict response to therapy, and optimization of inflammatory bowel disease therapies. Ergonomic Factors in Endoscopy: Addressing the Training Gap Practitioner injuries are widespread and early onset—new guidelines aim to stem the problem. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A model incorporating lifestyle, genetic factors could pinpoint high-risk young adults. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Outpatient procedure helps more patients avoid esophagectomy. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Minimally invasive paraesophageal hernia repair resolved anemia as well as debilitating vomiting, retching. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates As revised guidelines widen eligibility, new tools could help overcome barriers to colon cancer screening. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment An innovative care model and emerging research present opportunities to reduce the burden of severe IBD complications. Journey to a Treatment for Zoster Eye Disease Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Visual brain signals were restored to near-normal levels in a murine model. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Despite early skepticism, the pioneering treatment amasses a record of compelling cases. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid New faculty leaders at NYU Langone Health aim to redress longstanding inequities across the specialty. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery Micro-invasive glaucoma surgeries (MIGS) are widely used today by both glaucoma specialists and comprehensive ophthalmologists. They are safer than traditional glaucoma surgeries such as trabeculectomy and drainage implants and provide modest intraocular pressure (IOP) reduction. However, while many MIGS procedures try to help improve the eye’s physiologic outflow, glaucoma is not a simple problem, says Joseph F. Panarelli, MD , director of glaucoma services in the “We now have a full spectrum of glaucoma treatments. The question is how to identify the best treatments for our patients who have different levels of disease severity, different ages, and different types or pathology of glaucoma.” “The more advanced the disease, the more likely it is that the entire outflow system has pathology. That’s the reason MIGS do not work for all of our patients,” he says, adding that “trabeculectomy and tube shunt surgery are more prone to complications. Patients who are seeing fine are not always willing or excited to have a surgery where they might lose vision.” Exploring Hybrid Options Between MIGS and traditional surgery, there is MIBS (micro-invasive bleb surgery), a hybrid of the two. The procedure involves placing a microshunt into the eye, but instead of draining into a large reservoir for outflow, it feeds to a point just outside the eye and forms a diffuse bleb. “These tubes are much tinier than the tubes we use for traditional glaucoma drainage device placement and limit how quickly the fluid exits the eye. This helps reduce the chance that the pressure will drop too low,” Dr. Panarelli explains. Dr. Panarelli is senior author of a that compares the effectiveness and safety of microshunting versus trabeculectomy in patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG). The two-year, prospective, randomized study was conducted at 29 sites. Eligible patients had mild-to-severe POAG inadequately controlled on maximum tolerated medical therapy. Although reductions in IOP and glaucoma medications over one year were observed in both groups, the trabeculectomy group had a lower mean IOP on fewer medications. Dr. Panarelli notes that “both procedures did very well and for surgeons who do not routinely perform trabeculectomy, the microshunt may provide solid IOP reproduction with more reproducible results.” Dr. Panarelli was also senior author on a retrospective study that evaluated the bleb morphology and outcomes of eyes implanted with the XEN® Gel Stent (Allergan). This MIBS device resulted in significant IOP lowering along with a low rate of postoperative bleb needling. “My patient population tends to have more advanced disease, so I do more traditional surgeries,” he says. “The key to these micro-invasive bleb surgeries is that we can probably use them earlier in the disease course before someone has lost a significant amount of vision.” Balancing Next-Generation and Current Approaches Also an innovator in robotic eye surgery, Dr. Panarelli hopes one day to deliver stem cell treatment to the trabecular meshwork and gene therapy beneath the retina, combining robotic assistance with intraoperative optical coherence tomography and other advanced imaging. Yet, he believes trainees should be taught traditional surgical methods such as trabeculectomy. “We need to keep innovating but stay proficient in the traditional surgeries. Glaucoma is not easily managed with a single treatment option,” Dr. Panarelli says. Disclosure: Dr. Panarelli is a consultant for Santen Inc., Allergan, New World Medical, Glaukos, CorneaGen, and Aerie Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Joseph F. Panarelli, MD, is an associate professor of ophthalmology and director of glaucoma services. His research focuses on evaluating and developing new surgical techniques, including micro-invasive glaucoma surgery devices, and comparing outcomes of glaucoma procedures in adult and pediatric populations. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Keratoconus is one of the leading indications worldwide for corneal transplant. As the disease progresses, the cornea undergoes progressive thinning and begins to protrude, causing irregular astigmatism and gradual vision loss. People tend to develop keratoconus in their teens and 20s after the visual system has matured, says Ann Ostrovsky, MD , a clinical assistant professor of ophthalmology and director of the keratoconus program at NYU Langone Health. “Visual rehabilitation in patients with keratoconus should be possible in most cases since the visual potential of the eye is normal.” Dr. Ostrovsky and colleagues are advancing keratoconus treatment using topography and tomography imaging modalities to diagnose early-stage disease, as well as collagen cross-linking to halt progression. “Rigid contact lenses can improve vision, but do not prevent disease progression. Advanced disease can result in corneal scarring and frequently requires transplant for visual rehabilitation,” she says. , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology, is a cell biologist researching the pathogenesis of the disease . Together, Dr. Ostrovsky and Dr. Chakravarti are collaborating to understand the fundamental causes of keratoconus. “We have families where several members are affected,” Dr. Ostrovsky says. “Those with certain systemic conditions, such as Down syndrome, connective tissue disorders like Marfan syndrome, and collagen vascular diseases, have a higher prevalence. Additionally, severe ocular allergy, blepharitis, and forceful rubbing can aggravate this condition.” Investigating Genetic Components Dr. Chakravarti began researching keratoconus because of her interest in extracellular matrix (ECM)–related pathologies of the cornea . “Initially, we were just looking for ECM changes and their effects on cell-to-cell communication. But a strong genetic component in keratoconus is undeniable,” she says. “It is increasingly being appreciated that in a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes, like Fuchs dystrophy . Thus, studying keratoconus requires multiple approaches,” Dr. Chakravarti adds. “In a majority of patients, keratoconus is a polygenic, multifactorial disease. In that sense, it’s different from other diseases of the cornea that are caused by a handful of genes.” In a DNA sequencing study of 11 families affected by keratoconus , the researchers found potentially pathogenic variants in 8 different genes. Some were related to ECM integrity, which confirmed the investigators’ suspicion that ECM genes are important in keratoconus. Patients with keratoconus with no obvious family history are also being recruited at the for genomic studies. The researchers hope the pathogenic changes unraveled from discarded corneal tissues will provide clues about candidate genes in the isolated keratoconus patients. Focus on Oxidative Stress Dr. Chakravarti and colleagues have performed RNA sequencing proteomic studies of discarded corneas from patients with keratoconus, identifying potential biomarkers and decreased antioxidant responses. “We think that unresolved oxidative stress impacts structural proteins that protect the eye’s integrity,” Dr. Chakravarti says. She points to the potential diagnostic value of this discovery in keratoconus screening. “We realized that some of the oxidative stress byproducts show up in the tears; we are hoping to develop these as biomarkers or predictors of disease severity.” There is utility in understanding the genetics, she adds, not only for stratifying patient risk, but in clinical scenarios. “For example, people who have a genetic predisposition to keratoconus should carefully be counseled about LASIK surgery because their corneas may already have an underlying structural weakness.” Promoting Early Diagnosis Dr. Ostrovsky is focused on raising awareness among pediatricians and eye care specialists to promote early diagnosis of keratoconus, especially in susceptible populations. To further this effort, she helped to establish NYU Langone’s multidisciplinary Down Syndrome Program , which includes ophthalmology. recent article for the American Academy of Pediatrics , Dr. Ostrovsky outlines the hurdles in diagnosing disease in patients with Down syndrome. “These cases can be quite challenging because children with Down syndrome frequently don’t complain of vision loss,” she says, “and vision screening as well as obtaining quality tomography images are challenging due to patient cooperation.” “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist.” As for the future, Dr. Ostrovsky says there is still work to do regarding screening paradigms for eye care professionals. “Basic topography equipment is widely available but interpreting the results can be complicated. In subtle cases, it may be helpful to have a consultation with a cornea specialist. This is where biomarkers can also be helpful.” Ann Ostrovsky, MD, is a clinical assistant professor and director of the keratoconus program in the Department of Ophthalmology. She is also co-founder of the Down Syndrome Program, part of Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone, and the associate clinical director for ambulatory care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Her research interests include Sjogren’s syndrome, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, and keratoconus. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol . 2021 Jul 19;7:1327-1336. While there is growing interest among both patients and clinicians in chemoprevention for colorectal neoplasia, currently only aspirin or metformin should be considered, according to expert recommendations commissioned by the American Gastroenterological Association. “Aspirin has the best evidence for colorectal neoplasia, but it’s not for everyone,” says gastroenterologist Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH , first author on the article. “There is less evidence for metformin than for aspirin. But for people with type 2 diabetes, metformin should be considered.” Best Practice Advice With a slew of chemoprevention agents under various stages of investigation, Dr. Liang and colleagues, including , the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, sought to provide an updated review of well-studied medications that have been evaluated in clinical trials. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer,” Dr. Shaukat says. “These represent some of the most updated and practical recommendations on chemoprevention for colorectal cancer.” While they report strong evidence for the use of low-dose aspirin to reduce colorectal cancer incidence and mortality, it should only be considered for patients younger than 70 who are at risk of cardiovascular disease, and its benefit must be weighed against the risk of bleeding. “If someone shouldn’t be taking aspirin for heart disease prevention, it isn’t recommended that they take it for colorectal neoplasia prevention,” says Dr. Liang. In contrast, no clear chemopreventive benefit can be found for calcium, vitamin D, folic acid, or statins. Non-aspirin nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are not recommended due to the high risk of adverse events. Navigating Patient Conversations Medications that lower cancer risk have great appeal from a patient perspective, Dr. Liang explains. But in some cases, patients may take medications for chemoprevention that have not been prescribed. As the new recommendations point out, this may be more harmful than helpful. “When physicians talk to their patients, it’s useful to ask if they are taking anything on their own,” says Dr. Liang. “We hope this can serve as a resource as they navigate those conversations.” Epidemiology, Gastroenterology Peter S. Liang, MD, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and population health. He is a health services researcher and epidemiologist with a primary focus in colorectal cancer prevention. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity The neovascularization caused by retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) can sometimes be halted with drugs or laser therapy, preventing the negative sequelae and late-stage disease that can require vitrectomy surgery. In premature infants, this surgery requires precision and specialized expertise. Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD , an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology, treats both children and adults with retinal disease. However, it is her expertise in ROP surgery that attracts patients from across the New York region. “Kids are not little adults; their eyes haven’t yet developed completely, so special considerations need to be made for surgeries unique to this group,” says Dr. Dedania. “Some of these babies are under three pounds.” More than 40 percent of at-risk premature infants develop some stage of ROP , with approximately 12.5 percent developing severe ROP. “The median age for treatment-requiring ROP is 36 to 41 weeks,” says Dr. Dedania. “Now, we’re able to save more 22- and 23-weekers. The younger the baby, the greater the risk for developing ROP.” Imaging Infant Eyes Most ROP regresses without treatment, yet for those cases that do progress, it can be difficult to predict which babies will require treatment and when. Dr. Dedania is involved in several initiatives aimed at early prediction and diagnosis of advanced disease. “We need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment.” “We have advanced technology—including OCT [optical coherence tomography] and OCT angiography—that we use in diabetic retinopathy and other retinal diseases,” she says. “While we have some of this available for use in children, we have to develop a better understanding of how this technology can offer predictive data in ROP.” In collaboration with colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Laboratory , Dr. Dedania is participating in a single-center study to characterize and evaluate retinal pathologies using OCT “Additionally, we need to find ways to better visualize intraoperatively for these babies—we’re still using all adult equipment,” she says. The Role of Biomarkers Dr. Dedania says biomarkers with high sensitivity and specificity are needed to predict ROP. “We use biomarkers from tears and blood—less-invasive means—to obtain the metrics. But we really need to understand how to utilize this information,” she notes. To help address this question, Dr. Dedania and colleagues have implemented a vitreous biorepository at NYU Langone Health. “This is what we want to find out: are there vitreous biomarkers predictive of ROP and how do those correlate with biomarkers from blood or tears?” Improving Access to Care Lastly, Dr. Dedania believes telemedicine is an essential part of ensuring that all premature babies get screened for high-risk ROP. She participated in research that evaluated the feasibility of screening using a novel smartphone-based fundus photography device , and recently completed a study evaluating ROP screening patterns during the pandemic. “Especially in resource-poor communities, we need to ensure that all premature infants get proper ROP screening and have access to the interventions that can prevent blindness,” she said. Retinal Opthalmology, Vitreoretinal Surgery Vaidehi S. Dedania, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. Her clinical and research focus is on developing new ways to predict, diagnose and treat diseases of the retina. In addition to individualized physical therapy programs at , we can bring our expertise directly to your entire company. Our licensed physical therapists are available to work on-site to provide in-depth rehabilitative services. We have served a long list of clients, ranging from utility companies to financial institutions. Our physical therapists have advanced degrees in orthopedics, ergonomics, and biomechanics and are specially trained to work with people who have all types of musculoskeletal problems. A therapist can be available full or part time, depending on your company’s needs. Our services range from staff education and awareness, implementation of injury prevention programs to the development of on-site treatment interventions. , we can also tailor our medical services to meet the needs of your corporation. Our board-certified medical advisor works with the company’s medical services and safety departments on an ongoing basis to provide the highest quality care for employees. Corporate on-site medical services may include training the medical staff in the evidence-based care of people with musculoskeletal disorders, setting up a triage care system, providing informational seminars to managers and employees, and providing independent medical evaluations. Through our Corporate Stress Management Program at , our team assesses stress levels among company employees through observation or standardized questionnaires. It can then make recommendations for improving overall work satisfaction and productivity. We can work with a company’s medical and human resources departments to identify teams of workers or those in a particular department who might benefit from stress management. We can then provide customized group seminars in the workplace. As part of the Corporate Stress Management Program, we offer the following services: education about the relationship between stress and physical, psychological, and behavioral problems self-assessment and monitoring techniques to enable workers to chart their progress relaxation techniques cognitive coping techniques problem-solving strategies Sessions may also include information about time management and social skills training, when appropriate. We encourage the development of programs that your organization can maintain, and our professional staff is prepared to train select personnel in various aspects of cognitive behavioral education, so that they can serve as resources within your organization. Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 RECOVER: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery. The RECOVER study has four main questions: What does the spectrum of COVID-19 recovery look like? Who continues to have symptoms, or develops new symptoms, after acute infection? What causes post-acute sequelae? Does SARS-CoV-2 trigger biological changes that increase the risk of other conditions? ADAPTED FROM: Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( RECOVER RECOVER’s Clinical Science Core oversees all national cohort sites, including 15 adult, 8 pediatric, 2 maternal–fetal medicine, 7 autopsy, and 2 electric health record sites, plus more than 200 clinical sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health Funding to NYU Langone Health comprises $52 million for infrastructure and more than $400 million for allocating to sites. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health In February 2021, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced the Researching COVID to Enhance Recovery ( ) initiative to study the growing number of suspected, and in many cases potentially severe, post-acute sequelae of COVID (PASC). That May, NYU Langone was chosen as the project’s Clinical Science Core (CSC), responsible for leading and integrating the research activities of over 200 clinical sites and 40,000 study participants nationwide. The grant to NYU Langone represents one of the largest in NIH history. The CSC is helmed by co-principal investigators , the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics; , director of the Center for Healthcare Innovation and professor of Population Health and Medicine; and Andrea B. Troxel, ScD , director of the Division of Biostatistics and professor of Population Health. In consultation with more than 100 researchers from 35 institutions, as well as patients with PASC, the CSC designed the study protocols for RECOVER’s five cohorts. By January 2022, enrollment was underway for the adult, maternal-fetal medicine, autopsy, and electronic health record cohorts, with the pediatric cohort expected to follow later in the year. “We’re asking basic questions about the pathophysiology, symptomology, and epidemiology of PASC. The answers will be crucial to solving a public health crisis affecting millions of people around the world.” Heart Failure, Cardiology Stuart D. Katz, MD, is the Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics and director of the Heart Health Failure Program. His research interests focus on developing new treatments to enhance exercise capacity and quality of life in heart failure patients. Leora Horwitz, MD, is director of the Division of Healthcare Delivery Science and the Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science, as well as a professor of population health and medicine. Her research interests center on healthcare redesign and health system transformation. Biostatistics, Population Health Andrea B. Troxel, ScD, is director of the Division of Biostatistics and a professor of population health. Her research aims to develop statistical methods for longitudinal data and the design and analysis of randomized clinical trials. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Mark V. Sherrid, MD and Daniel G. Swistel, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In a study published in the Journal of the American Heart Association , researchers including cardiologist Mark V. Sherrid, MD describe a previously unreported syndrome of reversible cardiogenic shock and left ventricular (LV) ballooning in obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). A group of patients with HCM developed this syndrome, which superficially resembles an acute coronary syndrome associated with Takotsubo syndrome. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology,” Dr. Sherrid observes. “In cases of LV ballooning, obstructive HCM may be overlooked because of the dramatic presentation, because the septal thickening is mild, and because obstruction may be latent. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” Affected patients had distinctive anatomical and physiologic characteristics that set them apart from Takotsubo patients. When their treatment was tailored to the underlying etiology, it was associated with favorable outcomes. “HCM is the great masquerader of cardiology. Patients are misdiagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome and given treatments that may exacerbate their symptoms.” A New Etiology for LV Ballooning The latest study built on earlier research by Dr. Sherrid, that examined electronic health records of 44 patients diagnosed with Takotsubo syndrome. In that study, imaging showed that 30 percent of this cohort had undiagnosed obstructive HCM, indicated by abnormalities of the ventricular septum and mitral valve with systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve (SAM) and high LV outflow gradients. Observations of this group suggested that acute LV outflow tract obstruction may cause ballooning. In the new study, Dr. Sherrid and his team analyzed 14 patients who were admitted with obstructive HCM and abrupt presentation of cardiogenic shock with LV ballooning. These patients received treatment addressing their HCM and outflow tract obstruction rather than that typically administered in Takotsubo cases. Shock management included intravenous phenylephrine, norepinephrine, beta blocker, and vasopressin. A subset of patients in refractory shock received urgent relief of obstruction by myectomy (n=5) or alcohol ablation (n=1). Despite the typically poor prognosis for cardiogenic shock, all patients survived, with full recovery of systolic function A Dangerous Masquerade In cardiogenic shock associated with LV ballooning in HCM, medical therapies commonly administered in Takotsubo syndrome—such as dobutamine, nitrates, or ACE inhibitors—are contraindicated. The efficacy of surgical intervention in cases of refractory cardiogenic shock also distinguishes the new syndrome from Takotsubo, in which ballooning occurs in the absence of underlying anatomical defects. “This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention,” says Daniel G. Swistel, MD , a coauthor of the most recent study. “Decisions must be made in hours, and misdiagnosis of the true pathophysiology can result in fatal missteps.” This clinical scenario is one of the few in HCM requiring emergent surgical intervention.” The Importance of a Trained Eye Dr. Swistel notes that the clinical definition of HCM has recently expanded to include patients who have mild or normal LV thickness, yet have outflow tract obstruction at rest or after exercise responsible for typical heart failure symptoms. These patients have mitral leaflet elongation, papillary muscle abnormalities, and SAM, but their HCM may go undiagnosed due to the lack of obvious septal thickening. The finding that the condition can be associated with LV ballooning and cardiogenic shock “underscores the need for clinicians to familiarize themselves with the many anatomic variants found in HCM,” he observes. “This is a huge discovery on Dr. Sherrid’s part,” Dr. Swistel adds. “It’s a real leap forward in diagnosis.” Mark V. Sherrid, MD, is director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and an associate professor of medicine. His research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Daniel G. Swistel, MD, is surgical director of the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy program and a professor of cardiothoracic surgery. His research focuses on advancing surgical and other therapies for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and associated valvular disorders. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart Nader Moazami, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff The first successful human implantation of an artificial heart took place in 1982. Forty years later, just one such device is available in this country—the SynCardia Total Artificial Heart (TAH), approved in 2004 by the Food and Drug Administration as a bridge to transplantation. Although a lifesaver for some patients with irreversible biventricular failure, the device is only a stopgap. Researchers have long struggled to develop a TAH capable of permanently replacing a natural heart, and several groups now claim to be close to that goal. Whether they will succeed, however, remains an open question. , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, is an internationally recognized expert on circulatory assistive devices. We spoke with him about the state of the TAH—and its future. “As an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent.” Overcoming Engineering Challenges A permanent artificial heart has been a holy grail of cardiac surgery since at least the 1960s. Why has it taken so long? The engineering challenges are mind-boggling, ranging from miniaturization to biocompatability to the need to prevent clotting and hemolysis. But as an aging population spurs growing rates of heart disease, the search has only become more urgent. The need for a permanent TAH is primarily driven by patients with end-stage biventricular heart failure who aren’t eligible for transplantation. But the same technology could benefit transplant-eligible patients as well, by providing better alternatives to the TAH available today. The SynCardia TAH has been implanted in about 1,700 patients since its introduction—just over 100 per year. What are its strengths and limitations? As a bridge to transplant, the SynCardia works reasonably well. But it’s based on technologies and concepts that were current in the 1980s—a pneumatic driver moving a diaphragm to create a pulsatile flow. It has a high rate of complications. It requires a complex anticoagulant regimen. It’s bulky and noisy. It’s not something that people can live with long term. For all these reasons, the device continues to have a limited application. Should next-generation TAHs adopt the continuous-flow model? There are some strong arguments for doing so. As we’ve seen with left ventricular assist devices (LVADs), continuous-flow (CF) rotary pumps provide increased mechanical reliability, smaller size, and better overall patient outcomes than volume-displacement pulsatile-flow technology. However, CF LVADs are also associated with complications such as arteriovenous malformations, bleeding, and hemmorhagic infarcts in some patients. This may reflect the fact that all our organs—the gut, liver, kidneys, brain— evolved to respond to pulsatile flow So in my opinion, the jury is still out on continuous-flow TAHs. Assessing Next-Generation TAH Candidates Several experimental TAHs are in the running to become the first permanent artificial heart. What should we know about them? The three candidates that have gotten the most attention are those developed by the Cleveland Clinic, Carmat, and BiVACOR. The Cleveland Clinic TAH was one of the earliest CF artificial hearts; it’s been around for about 10 years. I was involved in testing it preclinically before joining NYU Langone Health, but it has not yet reached the stage of human trials. BiVACOR is another CF TAH. Its sole moving part is a magnetically suspended spinning disk that acts as a centrifugal pump. The design is meant to enhance durability and reliability, as well as reduce its size. Another unique feature is that this TAH can be programmed to mimic pulsatile flow; it will be interesting to see if that modification improves patient outcomes. But this device, too, is still in the animal-testing stage. The Carmat TAH is a pulsatile flow device, which uses a hydraulic pump and pressure sensors to regulate blood flow according to patients’ physical activity. European regulators approved it in 2020 as a bridge to transplant, and it entered clinical trials in the United States in 2021. Again, it’s too soon to say whether one of these candidates is the front-runner. “For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. But for end-stage heart failure patients who aren’t candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend.” A Solution to the Donor Heart Shortage? Some advocates suggest that permanent TAHs could provide an alternative to biological hearts, helping to relieve the persistent shortage of organs for transplantation. How realistic is that expectation? I’m skeptical. For patients who are eligible for a transplant, it’s hard to imagine that any TAH could be a desirable substitute for a biological heart—at least for the foreseeable future. As long as TAHs need an external drive line, they raise a variety of concerns: infection, difficulty taking a shower, the danger of accidentally tugging on the cable. If these devices can someday be internalized, that might change the equation. Until then, the most effective way to address the shortage of transplant organs will be to increase the supply of usable donor hearts. NYU Langone Health has been at the forefront of that effort, first by pioneering the use of hepatitis C-positive organs , and more recently by using donation after cardiac death organs. We’re also looking into xenotransplantation of genetically modified pig hearts, building on the Transplant Institute’s recent work with kidneys candidates for a transplant, a permanent TAH could be a godsend. When an appropriate device becomes available for human testing, we expect to be one of the leading centers investigating it clinically. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy The retrospective study compared 173 patients monitored using paper-based blood glucose logs and 360 patients managed through a remote patient monitoring platform. The remote monitoring group had an increased rate of maternal glycemic control at the time of delivery and decreased rates of preeclampsia and neonatal hypoglycemia compared to the standard paper glucose log group.For data shown, p<0.001. ADAPTED FROM: Oral presentation at SMFM Annual Pregnancy Meeting; February 11, 2023. Diabetes is one of the most common medical complications in pregnancy with gestational diabetes impacting an estimated 2 to 10 percent of pregnancies in the United States. Poor glycemic control increases the risk of congenital malformation, pregnancy loss, and perinatal morbidity and mortality. Studies have demonstrated that optimal glycemic control during pregnancy can reduce these complications, but pregnant patients are faced with the challenges of attaining proficiency in diabetes surveillance and management in a very short time frame. In February 2020, the Division of Maternal–Fetal Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, in collaboration with NYU Langone’s Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) team, implemented the use of a remote patient monitoring (RPM) platform for at-home monitoring of patients’ glucose blood sugar levels. Eight months later, the division also launched the Postpartum Blood Pressure Remote Monitoring Program to conduct at-home blood pressure monitoring after delivery. In a retrospective study of 533 patients managed through the Diabetes in Pregnancy Program, director , associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist, and colleagues compared the outcomes of 173 patients previously monitored via paper-based blood glucose logs with those of 360 patients managed through RPM tools after their program’s launch. “Leveraging remote patient monitoring technology for management of diabetes in pregnancy reduces obstetric complications and improves neonatal outcomes.” The study found that during their pregnancies, those who monitored blood sugar levels through the RPM platform were significantly more likely to achieve glycemic control in the target range at the time of delivery, and achieved target range sooner than patients managed with the paper logs. The RPM patients had lower rates of preeclampsia, and their infants had lower rates of neonatal hypoglycemia within the first 24 hours of life. Based on the combined results, Dr. Heo and her colleagues concluded that RPM for managing diabetes during pregnancy is superior to the traditional paper-based approach. Maternal–Fetal Medicine and Physician Informatics Hye J. Heo, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and a physician informaticist in Health Informatics with MCIT. She serves as the director of the Diabetes in Pregnancy and Maternal–Fetal Medicine Fellowship Program, both at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. She also serves as the System Physician Informaticist for the department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients Dan G. Halpern, MD and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff As more patients with adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) age into adulthood, care teams must address evolving needs for patient-centered support, says ACHD program director . Dr. Halpern and his colleagues in the Congenital Heart Program are partnering with young adult patients to understand what new services can best support their goals for independence in their careers, lifestyle regimens, and relationships as they manage chronic heart disease. “We have to learn how to address all of the clinical—and social—aspects of how to transition a kid into an adult. We are responsible for more than their cardiac care. These are young adults that strive to live well-rounded, fulfilling lives,” Dr. Halpern says. As a tertiary care center and first New York state-accredited comprehensive ACHD center, the Congenital Heart Program—which includes two ACHD transition clinics—is charged with offering a full range of clinical and social services for patients navigating challenging life transitions, including entering adulthood. “In their 20s, patients still come with their parents and a phone book of medical records. By 25 or 30, these young adults come by themselves and are learning to navigate their own life,” says Dr. Halpern. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of… There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Hearing Unique Anxieties For young adults with ACHD, unique anxiety and stress can stem from activity limitations that may be unclear. “You have to be a bit parental, the adult in the room who can help adjust their expectations while letting them live their lives,” Dr. Halpern says. The NYU Langone Health program includes an ACHD social worker to help address concerns of patients caught between pediatric and adult worlds. “It’s not just the heart that we take care of. Just this morning, one of my patients asked me for a hug in the hospital. There’s a lot of psychology around ACHD.” Recently, COVID-19 has revealed how external factors fuel unique concerns for ACHD patients. In a survey of 100 adults with ACHD, Dr. Halpern and Jodi L. Feinberg, NP , “found an immense amount of anxiety, depression and fear of COVID-19.” Their concerns weighed heavily despite the fact that NYU Langone Health researchers have helped determine COVID-19 mortality in ACHD patients is commensurate with the general population. “Something jumped here and it spurred us. We redesigned the clinic flow to take care of oxygen saturations, medications, and mental health through carefully scheduled video visits,” says Dr. Halpern. Letting Patients Reveal Their Needs Dr. Halpern and colleagues, including , have been holding virtual information sessions where ACHD patients of all ages are invited to learn and share about care-related topics. Some of the first sessions focused on COVID-19-related anxiety, exercise regimens, healthy diets, and scars. Dr. Halpern says they are surfacing unexpected insights about the needs of young adult patients. “The diet one, although nicely done, did not generate much interest,” Dr. Halpern laughs. “Then, everyone was so enthusiastic about the one on scars. They were advising each other about how to tell a new significant other about a sternotomy scar. That seemed to interest them more than the surgery itself.” Based on this feedback, the ACHD team built a scar initiative with dermatology. Three months after an ACHD surgery, patients are now referred for specialty treatment to minimize scarring. Creating Peer Community Dr. Halpern’s team is considering strategies for offering peer-to-peer matching for ACHD patients. The goal is to introduce patients with a specific congenital heart defect—tetralogy of Fallot or single