chilled water shall be designed with a 48°F entering chilled water temperature b. Operating Room Chilled Water Supply and Return Temperatures: Contact Facilities Operations for proper values. c. If Chilled Water will be decoupled from main loop, with a heat exchanger, higher design temperatures shall be used and approved by Facilities Operations d. 2 way control valves shall be used II. Condenser Water (campus) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 85°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 95°F c. 2 way control valves shall be used III. Condenser Water (process) a. Condenser Water Supply Temperature: 80°F b. Condenser Water Return Temperature: 90°F NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 402 2024 IV. Steam a. Working pressure of steam is 1) LPS 5 psi 2) MPS 25 80 psi 3) HPS operating: 150 180 psi, maximum: 200 psi 4) HHPS 600 psi b. On the Manhattan main campus, clean steam generation shall be used for humidification and for direct injection sterilization. V. Perimeter Heating a. Non potable hot water shall be designed to an Outside Air Temperature reset control scheme. VI. Outside Design Conditions a. The mechanical systems shall be selected to serve a facility as specified within the local Building Code. VII. Internal Design Conditions a. Offices, Conference Rooms, Classrooms, Student Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68 74°F D.B. b) Cooling: 68 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Conference rooms, libraries, study halls and similar spaces shall have CO2 monitoring and demand ventilation control. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): 15 of design. Control shall be on a room by room basis with a local over ride at the respective temperature sensor. b. Laboratories, Lab Support Areas and Similar Areas 1) Occupied: a) Heating: 68°F D.B. with a minimum of R.H ± b) Cooling: 75°F D.B. with a maximum of R.H. c) Air Change Rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instance shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. 2) Unoccupied Setback: a) Heating: 65°F D.B. b) Cooling: 85°F D.B. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 403 2024 c) Airflow Setback (non critical only): pressurization shall be maintained with reduced airflow. Methodology shall be reviewed with facilities operation prior to design. d) Air Change rate shall be determined based upon minimum code requirement or cooling load, whichever is greater. In no instances shall it be less than 6 air changes per hour unless an air sampling system is being used. Demand control ventilation is allowed on a case by case basis which shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. c. Health Care Facility Areas 1) Operating Rooms: 68 78°F D.B. depending on function of Operating Room. Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user. Minimum of R.H. and maximum of R.H. a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. 2) All other Health Care Facility Areas shall be designed to the data listed within the latest edition of the FGI Guidelines and ASHRAE 170 Ventilation for Health Care Facilities. 3) Procedure Rooms/Isolation Rooms/Protected Environment Rooms a) The ventilation systems shall be capable of flow tracking for the supply, exhaust, and return on a room by room basis. b) Temperature shall be discussed with Facilities Operations and with end user c) Sequence of operations shall be coordinated with requirements in the Building Management System design guidelines. d. Vivarium and Support Areas The data within this subsection shall be superseded by the most current version of NIH Guidelines. All temperature conditions shall be reviewed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. The final design shall be confirmed by all parties. 1) Unoccupied Setback: a) Areas with animal habitats shall not be allowed a temperature or airflow setback. b) Any rooms that are designed with an unoccupied schedule shall be confirmed with NYU Langone Health DLAR and Facilities Operations. e. Electrical Closets 1) Ventilated to 80°F D.B. average, 85°F D.B. maximum. f. Switchgear Rooms 1) Air Conditioned to 78°F D.B. The design shall be an N+1 configuration. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 404 2024 g. Technology spaces (IDF/BDF/TER) 1) BDF shall have two separate sources of cooling (example one unit on building chilled water and other unit on air cooled DX) 2) Heating: 65°F D.B. minimum (if room is on perimeter of building) Cooling: 78°F D.B. average, 83°F D.B. maximum. h. Storage/mechanical areas: 1) Ventilated i. Elevator machine rooms: 1) Air conditioned to 78°F dry bulb minimum. j. Sterilizers: Calculation for heat gain from a sterilizer shall be the skin loss of the sterilizer plus cooling load required during cooling of cleaned/sterilized items. Engineers shall note on a design drawing what the skin loss of the sterilizer is as well as what the cooling load for sterilized/cleaned items is. k. Toilets: Ventilate to local Mechanical Code requirement. VIII. Internal Load Criteria Refer to ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. IX. Lighting and Equipment Heat Gains a. Base design on data listed within ASHRAE Handbook Fundamentals; Nonresidential Cooling and Heating Load Calculations Chapter and ASHRAE Handbook Applications; Laboratories Chapter and Health Care Facilities Chapter. X. Hours of Operation a. Offices: 12hrs/day, 5 days/week b. Laboratories/Support Areas: case by case basis to be discussed with end user. c. Health Care Facility/Support Areas: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week d. Vivarium: 24 hrs/day, 7 days/week NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 405 2024 C. Mechanical Naming Convention I. Equipment Naming Scheme Example: AHU TH 1 2 AHU TH 1 2 Unit Type Building Name (Location of Unit) Floor # Unit # AC Air Conditioning Unit (cooling only) ALH Alumni Hall ACB Active Chilled Beams BRK Brooklyn Lutheran ACC Air Cooled Condenser BRG Berg ACCH Air Cooled Chiller EB Energy Building AF Air Filter GBH Greenberg Hall AHU Air Handling Unit HCC Health Care Center B Boiler KP Kimmel Pavilion CAV Constant Air Volume Unit MSB Medical Science Building CH Chiller SB Science Building CP Condensate Pump SKB Skirball CSG Clean Steam Generator SRC Smilow Research Center CT Cooling Tower TH Tisch Hospital CWP Condenser Water Pump ET Expansion Tank For all offsite locations, confirm EX Exhaust Fan Building name with RED+F FCU Fan Coil Unit Space Planning division. FOP Fuel Oil Pump GX General Exhaust Fan HWP Hot Water Pump KEF Kitchen Exhaust Fan PCHP Primary CHW Pump PFHX Plate and Frame Heat Exchanger PRV Pressure Reducing Station RAF Return Fan SAF Supply Fan SCHP Secondary CHW Pump STHX Shell and Tube Heat Exchanger SX Smoke Exhaust Fan TX Toilet Exhaust Fan UH Unit Heater VAVS Variable Air Volume Supply Box VAVR Variable Air Volume Return Box VAVX Variable Air Volume Exhaust Box VFD Variable Frequency Drive WSHP Water Source Heat Pump NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 406 2024 *NOTE: for renovation projects the engineer shall inquire what the existing labelling scheme is on the floor and continue with the last number using the labeling scheme above. Example: if the floor has VAV’s on the 2nd floor of MSB labelled as VAV 1 through VAV 11, engineer shall start new labeling as VAVS MSB 2 12 II. FSD/FD labeling scheme: Example: HCC 1 FD 2 D. Various I. Testing and Balancing a. Aeroseal shall not be used to seal new ductwork. Aeroseal may be used only in existing inaccessible exhaust risers with proven air leakage. The use of Aeroseal on any other type of ductwork shall not be used unless discussed and approved by NYULH Facilities. b. Duct foil tape is not allowed to be used to seal ductwork. c. Only duct mastic is allowed for sealing ducts. d. All projects shall have a TAB baseline taken of space prior to design/demo to confirm existing conditions. e. All Testing and Balancing values shall be within / + of design values on a per outlet basis. f. Duct Leakage Testing Standards: Duct ClassPressureSeal ClassLeakage ClassMedium Pressure Horizontal3” 6” A4Medium Pressure Risers3” 6” A4Low Pressure2” and belowA6*Note: Low Pressure testing only applicable to sections greater than 100 square feet of duct surface area. Low pressure testing is not applicable for VRF designs. g. All hydronic piping shall be hydrostatically tested to 1.5 working pressure but not less than 100psi for a minimum of 2 hours. Temperature readings of the piping being tested shall be taken prior to the test and at the conclusion of the test. All tests to be witnessed by owner. h. Refer to Water Treatment/Cleaning section for further requirements for pipe flushing. i. Permanent bypasses shall not be designed or installed. Install two shut off valves with hose attachment for flushing purposes. Include requirement in Testing and Balancing section for a flushing procedure to indicate the location of all hose bypasses or permanent piped bypasses on a drawing and attached to the report. After flushing is completed there shall be a sign off sheet indicating the flushing contractor, CM/GC and the CxA have walked every bypass location and HCC 1 FD 2 See building labeling scheme Floor #FD Fire DamperFSD #in previous tableFSD Fire Smoke DamperSD Smoke DamperNYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 407 2024 confirmed the hose has been removed and the valves are closed. This sign off sheet shall also be attached to the report. j. All refrigerant piping shall be tested per the following: Pressure Testing for leaks • Charge system with regulated dry nitrogen and the appropriate tracer gas to pressure defined by engineer of record (EOR) or Manufacturer. • Branches may be tested in segments to reduce the time needed to locate leaks. However, for the final test, entire system must be tested as one. • When all leaks have been repaired and sections have been retested, the system must stand, unaltered, for 24 hours with no more than a +/ 1 pound pressure change. • If system does not drop below specified pressure within 24 hours, the system is then ready to be evacuated. Evacuation Procedure • Pull a system vacuum down to at least 1000 microns (+/ 50 microns) and close the vacuum header valves. If the system cannot pull a vacuum at any step and returns to atmospheric pressure, which is an indication of a leak, test for and repair the leak using the previously described procedure with tracer gas. • If the 1000 micron vacuum holds for 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), break the vacuum with dry nitrogen to a pressure of 2 psig • Install system suction and liquid drier cores. • Pull a second vacuum to a minimum of 500 microns and hold for 30 minutes. • Close vacuum header valves. • If the 500 micron vacuum holds for a minimum of 30 minutes (+/ 50 microns), then break the vacuum with the refrigerant to be used in the system. k. All pressure sensitive rooms shall have pressure relationship between room and outside space shown on report. l. System Static and Differential Pressure setpoints shall be set by the TAB contractor and indicated on the TAB report. These values shall be provided to the BMS contractor to input into the BMS. m. Spaces that are pressure sensitive but do not have a required pressure value (i.e. soiled utility closets) a value of 0.003” or 0.003” shall be required. n. Pressure sensitive rooms shall be tested prior to ceiling being installed to confirm design pressure relationships between pressurized room and adjacent spaces. o. Article 28 space balancing reports shall show pressure in and pressure out per FGI Guidelines. p. Balancing reports for any rooms designed to be positive or negative pressure must include the room’s pressure on the report. Report cannot be approved unless .01”wc/.01”wc is obtained while also meeting design flow CFM or +. q. Testing and Balancing contractors shall be NEBB, TABB or AABC certified. Non certified TAB contractors are not allowed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 408 2024 II. All equipment shall be cleaned prior to starting/turnover. III. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup IV. Heat Recovery systems shall be enthalpy wheels, hydronic glycol based systems, air to air heat exchangers or run around coils. These shall be designed on a case by case basis and will need to be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. V. Pressure dependent rooms shall always have a schedule shown on drawings indicating location, room name, room use and pressures required to meet code criteria. Testing and Balancing reports for these rooms shall always indicate design pressure and actual pressure of room. VI. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. 1) Air Handling Units 2) Chillers 3) Boilers that are designed for co generation VII. Field Testing a. The following equipment shall be field witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. 1) Field Assembled Air Handling Units VIII. Flexible ductwork is not allowed in healthcare projects. IX. Slip and Drive connections for ductwork are only permitted when space in ceiling is limited. X. Provide futures when tapping off piping risers. XI. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 409 2024 E. Pandemic Upgrades I. All upgrades shall be discussed with Facilities Management. The HVAC systems shall have the following upgrades: a. Minimum MERV 13 filters i. For clinical areas: Ability to add HEPA filtration when needed b. Ability to operate spaces at a humidity level of when needed c. Ability to operate with OA when needed with OA intake of unit minimum 50 feet from the exhaust of any system and street level i. Base design to be return air (or enthalpy recovery) F. Equipment 1. Access Doors Access doors shall be provided in any spaces where maintenance of any system (air or water) will need to be provided. A minimum size of 24x24 shall be provided, if smaller size is requested, obtain permission from Facilities Operations. Access shall be provided to all piping trim, dampers, actuators, shut off valves, BMS Sensors, equipment both sides of reheat preheat and cooling coils and any other equipment required maintenance access. The doors shall not be blocked by piping, electrical conduit, ceiling support iron or hangers. Per NYS Mechanical Code requirements, all FSD/SD/FD access doors shall be labeled “Fire/Smoke Damper Access Door”. Access door shall also be tagged per the NYULH naming convention.Approved Manufacturers: a. Finished Construction: 1) Karp 2) Mil Cor 3) Ruskin b. Sheetmetal (doors): 1) Duct Mate 2) Flexmaster 3) Ruskin c. Sheetmetal (hardware): 1) Arlan 2) Duro Dyne 3) Ventlok NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 410 2024 2. Air Compressors Medical air compressors see plumbing design guidelines. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sullair b. Quincy c. Ingersoll Rand 3. Air Conditioning Units ECM fan technology is preferred If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Refer to “Cooling/Heating Coil” section for further details. a. Packaged Self Contained Computer Room Air Conditioning Units Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) APC 3) Stulz 4) Trane b. Packaged Self Contained Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Enviro Tec 2) Liebert 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin 5) Climatemaster c. Packaged Self Contained DX Air Conditioning Units (Ceiling Mounted) Units shall not exceed 65db. 1) Liebert 2) Mammoth 3) United Coolair 4) Daikin 5) Climatemaster d. Spot Coolers (Data Closets) 1) Movin Cool NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 411 2024 e. Air Conditioning Water Source Heat Pumps 1) AAON 2) Carrier 3) Mitsubishi 4) Climatemaster 5) Bosch (Florida Heat Pump) 4. Air Curtains Air curtains shall be provided with a door switch to operate only when doors are open. Approved Manufacturers: a. Berner International Corp. b. King c. Mars Air Door d. Powered Aire Inc. 5. Air Handling Units If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Units shall be furnished with unit controls to comply with the requirements of the most current New York City Energy Conservation Code (NYCECC). ECM fan technology is preferred. In lieu of ECM fans, fan array technology can be used on all Air Handling Units. Provide one VFD per fan array and one VFD as backup, total of two VFDs per fan array. Do not provide bypass on VFDs. The VFDs shall be programmed to operate all fans simultaneously and at the same ramp speeds. Each fan motor in the fan array shall have its own local disconnect. The VFDs shall swap at a determined time interval to equal out run time. Manufacturer fan array control can be used only for monitoring purposes. Speed control/safety resets shall be controlled through the BMS or local to the AHU (i.e. static pressure trips). All fans in a fan array system shall be provided with low pressure drop backdraft dampers that will prevent recirculating air when a fan is down due to maintenance or failure. Do not provide blank off plates in lieu of backdraft dampers. Include trolly beam in motor section for motor removal and replacement. Non Ducted filter boxes shall have a minimum of 1 foot clearance. Ducted intake filter boxes shall have removable panels. This applies to V Cube type Mamoth condenser water type units. If unit is provided with factory mounted controls; the unit shall have ability for read/write access to the existing BMS system through BACnet or Modbus protocol. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 412 2024 Motor section shall have doors or removable panels that are larger than the motor for maintenance access. All floor plating inside each compartment shall be sheetmetal. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. If a unit is a double stack unit with access doors/panels on an upper level of the unit, the unit shall be provided with a permanent walkway/catwalk for maintenance access. Ladders without a walkway/catwalk are not allowed. Units are to be provided with access windows for each unit section. Lighting shall also be provided in each section. If unit is outdoors, lighting suitable for outdoor use (flood light type) shall be provided to illuminate all walkways/catwalks and access points. Pre assembled units 15,000 CFM and above shall be factory witness tested. Units under 15,000 CFM shall be reviewed with facilities on a case by case basis for specialty practice applications. Tests shall consist of: Unit walkthrough/punchlist, Leakage, Airflow, Coil Leakage, Deflection, Fan Vibration, and Acoustical. Field assembled units shall have the same test criteria as factory witness test but shall be field tested by manufacturer. Duct seal putty shall be used in all AHU conduit connections to VFDs, control enclosures, and other sensitive electronics. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. On units that require UV lighting, AHU UV light sections shall be provided with UV protected glass so that personnel can look into unit section without damaging eyes. UV lighting requirement also applies to packaged rooftop units. Humidity valve actuators shall fail closed based through an auxiliary contact from the fan current sensor. Stainless steel welded pans shall be installed under floor mounted CRAC/CRAH units that are inside of a building above the lowest floor. Pans are not required if flooring is waterproofed and floor is pitched to floor drains. Air blenders shall be used in all mixed air units. Air blenders shall be designed with low pressure drop. Discuss need of air blenders with facilities if design engineer is choosing to design a dual purpose heating/cooling coil as described in Cooling/Heating Coil section. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. For an AHU that serves Operating Rooms; the unit shall be designed to have a pre filter (intake of unit) of MERV 8. The final filter (discharge of unit) shall be MERV 15. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 413 2024 HEPA filtration shall be installed in the modular OR ceiling. If a modular ceiling is not being designed inside the operating room, discuss with facilities where HEPA filtration shall be installed. Service platforms / catwalks shall be provided to service doors / maintainable equipment that are 4 feet above roof per OSHA general industry standard fall exposure. Service platforms / catwalks shall be installed with a staircase. Foam wall insulation is preferred over fiberglass to reduce overall product dimensions. Refer to “Cooling/Heating Coil” section for further details. Approved Manufacturers: a. Factory Assembled Custom Air Handling Units 1) Air Enterprise 2) Buffalo Air Handling 3) Temtrol 4) Ventrol 5) Carrier 6) Ingenia 7) Alliance Air Products 8) Haakon 9) Scott Springfield b. Packaged Roof Mounted Air Handling Units 1) Enviro Tec 2) Trane 3) York/Johnson Controls 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth c. Packaged Roof Mounted DX Air Handling Units 1) Trane 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Liebert 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth d. Packaged Self Contained Chilled Water Air Handling Units 1) Buffalo Air Handling 2) Trane 3) Ventrol 4) Carrier 5) Mammoth NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 414 2024 e. Air Handling air source heat pumps All air source heat pumps shall be reviewed and approved with facilities management prior to any design. 6. Air Outlets Any outlets that are to be installed in labs, Operating Rooms or any specialized medical space shall be specific to the usage of the room. Standard outlets are not allowed in these areas. Plenum box connections to linear diffusers need to be clearly shown in details. Details shall clearly describe how connections shall be air sealed. Design engineer shall ensure detail is physically buildable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Anemostat b. Krueger c. Nailor Industries d. Titus e. Ruskin 7. Air Source Heat This section applies to central plant chilled and hot water production systems. Equipment and accessories shall be certified to the latest version of ARI Standard 550/590 and meet ARI Standard 370 noise criteria. All components that require maintenance or manipulation such as valves shall have clear unobstructed access. Panel enclosures (control and electrical) shall be NEMA 4. Exposed power wiring shall be routed through liquid tight, non metallic conduit. The unit shall divert melted water and mitigate ice buildup during defrost cycle away from unit components. Provide single point of connections for mechanical piping (separate heating and cooling) and electrical power. Single modules shall be capable of operating in cooling only, heating only, or simultaneous operation. The modules shall have the ability to be fully isolated from the system electrically and mechanically for service and maintenance. For maintenance requirements provide with at minimum one convenience outlet, lighting and water spigot with heat tracing. Coordinate with other roof equipment. Provide with an integral or separate heat exchanger to allow for heat transfer between hot/chilled water loops without the use of compressors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 415 2024 Evaporators shall be insulated with polyurethane insulation. Paddle type water flow switches are not acceptable. Fan motors shall be electronically commutated (EC) motors. Condenser coils shall be constructed of marine coated aluminum or copper fins with coppers tubes. Field testing with manufacturer representative shall occur two (2) times, one (1) during summer, one (1) during winter. Approved Manufacturers: Reach out to Facilities Operations for Approved Vendor list 8. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) Approved Manufacturers: a. Rittling b. Slantfin c. Sterling Radiator d. Vulcan Radiator 9. Boilers Approved Manufacturers: a. Condensing Modular 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Fulton 4) Cleaver Brooks b. Water Tube Package 1) Lochinvar 2) Peerless 3) Burnham c. Water Tube Package for Co generation 4) Babcock and Wilcox d. Firetube Boilers up to 150,000lbs/hr 1) Cleaver Brooks e. Heat Recovery Steam Generators / Waste Heat Boilers 1) Rentech NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 416 2024 10. City Water Backup Panels Provide city water backup panels for MRI, CT, PETCT, LINAC, and Cyclotron. City water backup panels shall have a drain directly upstream of the panel to be able to drain and flush the city water line without manipulating the valving within the backup panel. Chillers and City Water Backup panels shall be integrated into the BMS and the communication protocol shall be BACnet IP. 11. Clean Steam Generators Clean steam generators shall be steam to steam type. Screen control panels with PLC shall be provided. Shell shall be pitched to completely drain the condensate. Approved Manufacturers: a. Diversified Heat Transfer DHT. b. Patterson Kelley, Company. c. Acme Engineering Products, Inc. d. Precision Boilers, Inc. e. Armstrong f. Dri Steam g. Cem line 12. Chilled Beams (active) Chilled beams shall have pressure independent control. Beams shall be provided with a pressure tap that can be used to measure the pressure differential between the primary air plenum and the room. The units shall be equipped with hinged perforated return grilles, an air bleed and drain valves. The connection of beams to the chilled water circuit shall be a maximum 18 inch long PTFE lined braided stainless steel hose having a rated operating pressure not less than 500 psig. It is standard for all chilled beams to be supported by the wire hanging kit method. Provide a minimum of 3 feet of straight or gradual radius between the primary air duct and the primary connection of the unit. Also avoid sharp bends on the primary air duct connection. Do not install the primary air volume damper directly to the primary air inlet connection. Flexible duct connections to the primary air inlet is not allowed. Chilled beams shall be tagged. Tagging shall be included on the BMS/physical unit, unit tagging shall reference the associated VAV box. i.e. VAV SB 1 30 serves 3 chilled beams on the first floor of Science Building therefore ACB SB 1 30 1, ACB SB 1 30 2, ACB SB 1 30 3 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 417 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Dadanco b. Carrier c. Titus d. Semco e. York f. Price 13. Chillers If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Chiller redundancy to be reviewed by Facilities Operations. All new chillers shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Chillers located outdoors shall have capabilities of operating low ambient temperature conditions. Factory witness tests shall consist of all tests required under AHRI Standard 550. Chillers shall have a four point tests , , and design load. FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel for two NYULH personnel. Chiller FWT shall also include safeties and shutdown testing. Switches, dampers, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. In any outdoor application that has a coil (Chiller, ACCU, Drycoolers, RTUs etc.) exposed to the outdoors that is within 30 miles of the ocean, specify coastal type with corrosion resistance. Epoxy coating shall be installed on the internal side of centrifugal chiller water boxes. Approved Manufacturers: a. Centrifugal 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane b. Absorption 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Carrier 3) Trane NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 418 2024 c. Modular Air Cooled 1) Trane (Arctic) 2) Carrier 3) Multistack 4) York/Johnson Controls 5) Trane d. Modular Water Cooled 1) Trane (Arctic) 2) Multistack 3) York/Johnson Controls e. Packaged Air Cooled 1) Carrier 2) York/Johnson Controls 3) Trane f. Magnetic Levitation 1) York/Johnson Controls 2) Daikin 3) Trane g. Medical Chillers Medical chillers shall be supplied with city water backup panels. See city water backup panel section for additional details. Chillers and City Water Backup panels shall be integrated into the BMS and the communication protocol shall be BACnet IP. Each chiller shall be equipped with a Lead/Lag pump configuration for redundancy. A flowmeter shall be provided for monitoring chilled water flow. Drain valves shall be installed upstream of the supply and return isolation valves for flushing and cleaning of mechanical and domestic water pipe. Condenser coils shall be corrosion resistant. The chiller shall be bought by the construction team and be installed by the Mechanical Contractor, medical equipment vendors shall not purchase and install this equipment. 1) Haskris 2) Dimplex 3) Motivair 14. Condensate Pumps Steam condensate pumps shall have pump status monitored at BMS as well as high level alarm annunciated at BMS. This typically required additional relays to be designed. Condensate pumps shall be equipment with check valves on discharge piping. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 419 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Cold Condensate 1) Federal 2) Hartell 3) Little Giant b. Hot Condensate (Low Pressure Steam Return) 1) Armstrong International 2) Bell & Gossett 3) Federal Pump 4) Weinman 15. Cooling/Heating Coils Coil pressure rating shall be designed to 400 psi at an ANSI pressure class of 300 lbs. for Manhattan campus primary chilled water system. For air handlers, all coils shall be copper tube and copper fin. Fins shall not be thinner than 0.0095” and tubes shall have a minimum 0.035” wall thickness. Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed). See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. Aluminum fins are allowable only on non condensing coils (such as preheat coils). Construction of aluminum fin coils shall have copper tube with a minimum wall thickness of 0.035” and aluminum fin with a minimum 0.0095” thickness. A corrosion prevention coating (Electrofin or similar) shall be applied to any aluminum fin coil that is subject to outside air. All coils shall be drainable (drain downs downstream of isolation valve ¾” hose bib) and have means of removal for service or replacement. Coils shall be pitched to a low point for draining purposes. If coils have different levels, all levels shall have separate drain pans. Coils shall have capability to be removed without removing any piping trim. All coils shall have clear access for removal. Multi coils shall be staggered for ability to be removed on the same side of unit. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Vents shall be provided at the top of the coil with drains at the bottom, vent and drain shall exist between the coil’s isolation valves. Cooling Coils must have a stainless steel condensate pan pitched in three directions toward drain. In AHU cooling section, grating shall be provided over the pan to prevent slip hazards. Drain pan nipples shall be stainless steel with dielectric fittings connecting to a drain plug. If return air is coming from the top, the coils shall be designed to have a top and bottom section. If return air is coming from the side, the coils shall be designed to have a left and right section. Separate Freezestats shall be provided on EACH section of coil within a unit that is subject to outside air. Follow freezestat requirements in the BMS guidelines section. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 420 2024 If a unit has multiple coils, each coil section shall be provided with its own control valve. Freeze type plug valves are not allowed. AHU coils to be provided with a full size manual bypass ball valve around control valve. Traps for cooling and