safe) position as required by Laboratory safety standards. q. Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • The space temperature of each room shall be maintained by the supply air terminal unit and reheat coil serving the room. • The shared perimeter radiation valve shall be used to satisfy the room which requires the greatest amount of heating. • If any room requires heating, that room's terminal unit controller shall modulate its reheat coil control valve to maintain space temperature set point. The perimeter radiation control valve shall be allowed to operate in parallel with the reheat coil control valve until any room's space temperature is within 1ºF below its cooling set point, at which time, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate closed regardless of the heating demand of the other rooms. If any room's space temperature drops 1ºF NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 481 2023 below its cooling set point, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate open in parallel with the reheat valve associated with that room. r. Variable Speed Pump Control • Pump speed shall modulate to maintain differential pressure setpoint. • The differential pressure transmitter, used for speed control, shall be located upstream of the furthest connected equipment served by the pump. • On a decrease in differential pressure below setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate higher until reaching full speed. • On an increase in differential pressure above setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate lower until reaching minimum speed. o The pump minimum speed shall be limited to (adjustable) of its design flow rate. • On a further increase in pressure, the differential pressure valve shall modulate open to maintain system differential pressure. s. Exhaust Fan Control • When a fan is off, its intake and discharge dampers shall be closed. o All combination fire/smoke dampers located in associated ductwork shall be closed via hardware interlock with the fan. • When the fan starts, a time delay relay shall prevent the fan from starting until its intake, discharge and combination fire/smoke dampers are fully open. o Proof of open damper position shall be provided via end switch with hardware interlock to fan. • For fans that operate continuously, each fan shall be started by a manual command at the operator workstation. • For fans that function to maintain space temperature, fan shall be started via space temperature. o On sensing a space temperature above set point, the exhaust fan shall start. o On sensing a decrease in space temperature to 5°F below set point, the exhaust fan shall stop. t. Fan Coil Unit Control • Fan coil unit shall be started and stopped through the BMS. o Fan run status shall be monitored at the BMS via a current sensing relay. o On failure of the unit to operate, a fan failure alarm shall be activated at the workstation. • When the fan is off, its chilled and hot water control valves shall be closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 482 2023 • The fan coil unit shall modulate the normally closed chilled and hot water valves in sequence to maintain space temperature setpoint. o On an increase in space temperature above setpoint, the unit shall modulate the hot water valve closed and chilled water valve open. o As the temperature decreases, the reverse shall occur. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. o On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstation. • On sensing a space temperature 5°F above set point, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. On a decrease in space temperature to within ±2°F of set point, the alarm shall be reset. u. Chiller Control • Prior to enabling chiller operation, respective chilled and condenser water pumps shall start and chiller’s condenser and evaporator isolation valves shall be open. o Proof of pump status shall be via current sensing relay. o Proof of isolation valve status shall be via end switch. • When chiller is in operation, its factory furnished OEM controller shall stage compressors to maintain leaving water temperature set point. v. Cooling Tower Control • Tower fan speed shall be modulated to maintain condenser water supply temperature setpoint. • Condenser water setpoint shall be calculated based on the outdoor air wet bulb temperature plus the tower approach temperature. o Adjustable minimum and maximum setpoint limits shall be available. • All active tower cells shall modulate fan speed in parallel. • If all tower cells are off and condenser water temperature is still below setpoint, the bypass valve shall modulate open to maintain setpoint. • All active fans shall be started and held at minimum speed prior to modulating in parallel from minimum to maximum speed. w. Indoor Air Quality Control • Multiple combination CO2 transmitters shall be installed in the space served by the system and monitored via the BMS. • In addition, a CO2 transmitter shall be installed in the unit’s main return air duct and supply air duct. The output of the installed return and space CO2 transmitters shall be monitored by the BMS and compared to the master outdoor air CO2 transmitter. • The BMS shall activate an alarm if any CO2 transmitter reading is 530 ppm (adjustable) above the outdoor air system transmitter reading. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 483 2023 • A DDC software program shall continuously monitor the return and space CO2 transmitters, select the transmitter with the highest reading and calculate a supply air CO2 set point, which shall be used to vary the minimum outdoor airflow set point to maintain a maximum of 530 ppm above the outdoor air system transmitter reading for all return and space CO2 transmitters. • Minimum and maximum airflow set points shall be operator adjustable via the workstation. • The operator shall be capable of enabling/disabling the automatic reset at any time from the workstation. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units x. Demand Response • Heating and cooling setpoints for terminal equipment can be adjusted via global command to respond to a demand event. • Global command shall be initiated by an operator. • Global commands shall be isolated per building and per floor. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Variable air volume terminal units (both flow tracking and non flow tracking) • Fan powered variable air volume terminal units G. Parts i. Instrumentation a. Control Valves General (by Application) • Chilled water valves connected directly to the campus chilled water loop shall be rated for 300 psig working pressure. Valves on the secondary side of a pressure break can be sized based on the working pressure of the secondary system. • AHU and H&V unit hydronic heating & cooling coil valves o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Equal percentage o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Threaded NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 484 2023 o Size >=2 1/2"  Liquid temp. & pressure: <=125psig @<350degF or Steam pressure <=100psig Body: 125 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Steam valves o Whenever the steam flow rate is such as to require a single valve larger than 2 1/2 inches, provide two (2) valves in parallel, arranged to operate in sequence. o Low pressure (15 psig) steam valves shall provide tight closure at a pressure at least 10 psig higher than the normal maximum operating pressure. o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Linear o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged o Size >=2 1/2"  Pressure: <=100psig  Body: 125 pound cast iron  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Combo valve & actuator for terminal unit reheat coils, 2 & 4 pipe fan coil units, perimeter radiation, chilled beams, and radiant panels o Valve shall be suitable for chilled and hot water service o Characteristic: Equal percentage, via characterized disk o Body: Forged Brass o Seat: Fiberglass reinforced Teflon PTFE o Ball & stem: Chrome plated brass NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 485 2023 o Pressure rating:  <=1" valve: 600 psi  >1" valve: 400psi o Temperature range: 0degF 250degF o Leakage rating: ANSI Class IV. o Actuator:  Return type: Spring  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: Closed  Position feedback: Yes • Combo valve & actuator for chilled water minimum flow, modulating condenser water bypass, and inline valve applications o Valve type: Characterized Ball o Body: Carbon steel o Ball: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 316 stainless steel, blowout proof o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Leakage rating: 1/100 of Class IV ANSI/FCI 70 2 o Actuator:  Return type: Fail in place  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: n/a  Position feedback: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  DeZurik V Port Ball  Jamesbury Corp. R21/23 Segmented Vee Ball  Flowtech or Fisher Vee Ball • Butterfly valves o Valve type: High performance butterfly o Characteristic: n/a o Body: Carbon steel o Disk: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 17 4 pH stainless steel one piece o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Seal: Teflon o Pressure rating: Conform to application requirements o Connection: Lug o Leakage rating: Valves shall be capable of bubble tight double dead end closure with either upstream or downstream flange removed through the valves’ full rated pressure. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 486 2023 o Travel stops: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  Jamesbury Corp.  Bray  Keystone K LOK Figures 362 or 372 Execution • All threaded valves to be installed with unions. b. Gas Instruments • Carbon Dioxide Combo Sensor & Transmitter by Application: Wall Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. o Unit shall consist of a single wall mounted assembly designed for direct wall mounting or mounting on a standard junction box. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMW90 • Execution o Mount 3' and 6' above finished floor. Duct Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMD20 • O2 Monitoring System Serving MRI Equipment Rooms & MRI Rooms General • System to include a 4 20mA analog output. • Oxygen monitoring system shall be a sample draw monitoring system that alerts and alarms when oxygen levels fall below safe limits for human health. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 487 2023 Product • Manufacturer: ETS Lindgren • Model: OMS • Sample tube shall be made of transparent polyurethane 1/4" (7 mm) in diameter. Execution • Wall mount, using wall mount accessory and polycarbonate case with wall mounting accessory. • Configure two alarms as follows: • User selectable relay contacts • Fault relay for interface with the DDC system. • Tube end shall be positioned near the ceiling of the space being monitored. c. Flow Instruments • Airflow Measuring Stations by Application: Fan Inlet Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application requires the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Transmitter shall be selected based on a span from 0 cfm to upper end of the cfm range plus . • Products o Probe manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation VOLU probe/FI Pitot o Transmitter manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus Outdoor Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application may require the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Probes shall not create a pressure drop in the airstream • Products o Manufactures and models accepted  Accutrol Model IAQ Tek  Air Monitor Corporation Model OAM II  Air Monitor Corporation Model VOLU probe and VOLU probe/VS w/ Air Monitor Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus • Thermal Flow Switch NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 488 2023 d. Moisture Instruments • Relative Humidity Sensor & Transmitters Combos Product (by Application) • Duct mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMW90 Series • Space mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMD60 Series Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Point Type Leak Detectors Product • Manufacturer: Liebert • Model: LT 410 Execution • Sensing probes shall be adjusted to 1/8" above the floor. • Placement of the sensing probes must consider the installed floor slope so as to detect a leak from the anticipated source(s). • Zone Type Leak Detectors General • Select cable length to provide adequate coverage per manufacturer's recommendations. Product • Manufacturer: Liebert • Model: LT 460 Z## Execution • Install cable in a perimeter or serpentine configuration to capture leak originating from any location in or above zone NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 489 2023 e. Pressure Instruments • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Air) by Application: Static Pressure in Ducts Flow tracking terminal units (Supply, Exhaust, Fume Hood VAVs) • General o Size for unidirectional pressure range rating of at least 150 expected maximum nominal operating pressure. E.g. For VAV pitot sensors nominally 0 1 in WC DP, select a 0 2 in WC range. o Select Accuracy class based on criticality and operating tolerance of the application. o Output: 4 20mA • Product o Manufacturer & model: Ashcroft CLXdp • Static Pressure Probes (Air) by Application: Duct static pressure probes • General o Duct static pressure measurement requires two probes, one for the measurement in the duct, specified below, and one for reference measurement. Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that minimizes effects of air disturbances to maintain a stable reference pressure. • Products o Manufacturer & model: Kele A 301K or A 302 K • Execution o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. o Probe penetration into duct must be sealed to prevent air leakage. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 490 2023 • Pressure Sensors & Transmitters By Application Duct static pressure sensors & transmitters • General o Duct static pressure sensor & transmitter assemblies shall consist of a static pressure probe, transmitter and electrical box for wiring connections. o The static pressure probe shall extend across the width of the duct. o Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that shall minimize effects of air disturbances and maintain a steady, uniform reference pressure. o Transmitter range shall be selected to ensure that the normal set point is in the center of the device range. • Products o Probe Manufacturer & model: ? o Transducer Manufacturer & model: Setra Model 264 • Execution o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Water/Glycol) General • Signal output shall be selected for 4 20mA • Transmitter shall be enclosed in a gasketed, dust free and water tight housing. • Any enclosure exposed to the process fluid shall be equipped with drain ports at the bottom and vent ports at the top with a minimum 1/4' 18 NPT • Process fluid connection to transmitter shall be provided with a 3 valve manifold Product • Transmitter make/model: Rosemount Model 2051C • Manifold make/model: Anderson Greenwood & Co. Model MDP • Differential Pressure Switches (Air) General • High and low sensing ports shall be ferrule and nut compression for 1/4 in OD tubing. • All switches shall be automatic reset type. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 491 2023 • Switch shall be provided with SPST NC contacts rated for 15A, 125 277 VAC. Product • Manufacturer: Cleveland Controls • Model: AFS Series • Room Pressure Monitors General • Room pressure monitor shall include a bidirectional pressure sensor and wall mounted digital interface module. Room pressure monitoring shall utilize differential pressure sensing technology to display the respective room’s differential pressure with reference to the entrance corridor. o Differential pressure transmitter accuracy shall be ± of reading (± 0.00001 in. H20) and shall be bidirectional. • Monitors shall be provided with door sensors to disable alarms if the door is open. o Provide a door position switch for each door serving the room, wired in series. • Room pressure monitor shall be designed to provide room pressure operating and alarm status, alarm indication and acknowledgment functions. Alarm set points and time delays, prior to alarming, shall be programmable. Once the alarm condition ceases to exist, the alarm and mute functions are reset automatically. • Status indicators shall be green for normal and red for alarm. Room pressure monitoring shall include audible alarm. • Monitor shall be provided with a silence pushbutton to deactivate the alarm horn during an alarm condition. Product • The following manufacturer product lines are acceptable. Match the manufacturer to existing adjacent spaces. o Critical Room Control o TSI Pressura o Setra Flex Execution • Room pressure monitor shall be located outside of room served at entrance door. • Provide a local alarm light, horn and silence switch located within the room served. Horn and light shall be activated if a door is maintained in the open position for a continuous 3 minute time period. Silence switch shall allow the user to silence the horn; however, the light shall remain energized until the door is closed. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 492 2023 • If project has multiple rooms requiring pressure monitoring, monitoring shall be capable from one monitor. Multiple room monitoring only applies to auxiliary rooms not separate rooms or Operating Rooms/OR support spaces. f. Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensors General • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be 1/10th DIN RTDs Product • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be manufactured by o ACI o BAPI Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Combos by Application: Duct mounted averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of duct area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 493 2023 o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Preheat coil discharge sensors • General o Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Duct mounted non averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 18" or half the width of the duct o A NEMA 3R electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K 2W D 18 Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 494 2023 Liquid insertion type • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Mount sensor in a thermowell with #" #" gap between the end of the sensor and the end of the thermowell. The void between the two shall be filled with thermal grease. • Freezestats General • Low Air Temperature Thermostats for Air (freezestats) shall be sized to provide complete coil coverage as defined below to ensure each coil has one or more dedicated switches and no two coils share a temperature switch. o The coil area must be covered by freezestats leaving 6 inches from each edge of the coil. o The maximum vertical distance between each pass of capillary shall be no more than 8 inches. o Switch actuation shall occur if any 12 inch length of capillary senses a temperature below set point. o Capillary length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. o If capillary is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o If multiple freezestats are provided, each device shall only cover its percentage of coil. For example, if there are two (2) freezestats, each covers . If there are four (4) thermostats, each covers . Product • These thermostats shall be 2 position automatic reset type. Execution • Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. • Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. • Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. • Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Low temperature shutdowns shall be manually reset via operator command from a workstation. • The elements shall be suspended at least 6 to 8 inches downstream of the preheat coils. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 495 2023 • Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Thermowells Immersion temperature measurement • All thermowells shall be type 304 stainless steel • 3/4" NPT external thread, 1/2" NPT internal thread • Lagging extension shall be equal to insulation thickness • Insertion length shall be 1/3 to 3/4 of internal pipe diameter, but not more than 6" • Thermowells shall be rated for maximum system pressure, temperature and fluid velocity. • Internal bore of thermowells shall be sized to exactly fit the diameter of the sensing element to be installed. g. Weather Stations General • For use with cooling tower or economizer control. • Provide detail on ordering instructions to specify desired customized outputs to BAS. Product • Manufacturer: Viasala • Model No.: HMS110 Execution • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. h. Actuators General (by application) • Valve Actuators o All two position actuators shall be provided with open and closed limit switches for remote monitoring at the BMS. o Actuators shall be factory mounted to valve body and factory tested to ensure proper operation. o Actuators shall be provided with manually operated declutchable handwheels for overriding the actuator in both emergency and normal operation. o Actuator shall be provided with an external position indicator. o Tandem mounted actuators are not acceptable. o Actuators, limit switches, manual override handwheels, position indicators, etc., that are located outdoors shall be constructed for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 496 2023 outdoor use. All electrical devices shall be weatherproof and NEMA 4 rated. All exposed valve components (i.e., stem, shaft, gear operators, handwheel, etc.) shall be constructed of non rusting metal or factory coated with rust inhibiting paint. • Damper actuators serving automatic louver dampers o Tandem mounted actuators shall not be provided o Housing shall be NEMA 2 o Manual override shall be provided o Include external direction of rotation switch o Ambient temperature operation shall be 22°F to 122°F o Storage temperature shall be 40°F to 176°F o Actuators shall be UL listed o Two Position  Actuators in two position (open/closed) service shall be 120 VAC electrically actuated spring return type. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. o Modulating  All automatic louvered damper actuators in modulating service shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC electrically actuated spring return type, and shall be fully proportioning, unless otherwise specified. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. Product • Valve Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Bray, limitorque, EIM • Louvered Damper Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Belimo • Control Valve Actuators Preheat coil • Return: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal Position: Open Steam to or water to water heat exchanger • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 497 2023 Chilled water coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed Reheat coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed i. Current Instruments • Current Sensing Switches General • Switches shall have field adjustable sensitivity for detecting AC current levels. • Relay contacts shall be Form C rated for 5A at 120VAC Execution • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. j. Signal Transducers i. Relays Time Delay Relay • General o Time delay trigger and function shall be specified to meet the application requirements. • Product o Manufacturer: Magnecraft o Model: TDR Plug In Terminal (Ice Cube) • General o Relays shall be plug in terminal type with a DPDT configuration o Contact material shall be silver cadmium oxide • Product o Manufacturer: Idec o Model: RH Series NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 498 2023 • Execution o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. Self Enclosed Relay (Relay in Box) ii. Networks a. Network Hardware • Switches General • Quantity of 10 gigabit ports is required • A minimum of 24 ethernet ports is required. For large buildings, 48 ports is preferred. • Switch must include redundant hot swappable power supplies Approved Products • Manufacturer: Juniper o Model:EX 2300 or EX 3400 • Manufacturer: Netgear o Model: Netgear Pro Series • Manufacturer: Blackbox o Model: Gigabit Managed LG8 Series • Manufacturer: Cisco o Model: Catalyst 9500 • Routers General • BACnet router between MS/TP and B/IP (BACnet over IP) as well as a BBMD (BACnet Broadcast Management Device) for transportation of BACnet broadcasts over an IP network with several subnets. • Routers shall comply with the latest version of ASHRAE Standard 135 for communications. • Routers shall be UL864 listed when connected to BACnet MS/TP network segments that contain UL864 listed devices being used in a smoke control application. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 499 2023 • Device shall be capable of routing BACnet packets over Layer 3 IP network and shall support both the router and BBMD networking options. BBMD shall support registration of Foreign Devices. • Devices shall be password protected with additional security settings. iii. Piping & Panels a. Panel Enclosure General • The enclosure shall be made of steel or extruded aluminum with proper bracing for rigid wall or floor mounting. The enclosure shall not be attached to any piece of building equipment. All associated controller equipment shall be mounted in this enclosure such as controllers, power supplies, relays, switches, etc. • Hinged door shall contain a key operated lock. Lock shall be a cam style, in order for all the cores to be accessed via a master key. • Enclosures shall have a removable perforated backplane where all devices, din rail, and Panduit shall be secured and mounted. Product • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. • Accepted panel manufacturers: o Unity o Hoffman o Hammond Execution • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. b. Terminal Block General • All control panels shall be provided with a terminal strip for field wiring Product • Terminal blocks shall be 300 volt rated, medium duty, channel mounted, with numbered marking strips. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 500 2023 c. Labeling General • Provide an engraved nameplate for each enclosure, mounted on the face of the door, indicating the controller tag, device instance, system served and branch circuit number and electrical panel tag from which the enclosure is fed. • The control panel has to be labeled for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to be labeled. All labeling of controller devices, controllers, transformers, relays, wire, tags, etc. shall match labeling on approved as built drawings • Each control device (IE. Relays, fuses, etc.) mounted within enclosure shall be marked with a nameplate cross referencing it to the control diagram. • Wiring shall have identification sleeves at each termination at the terminal strip individually identified per control/interlock drawings, with adequate clearance for field wiring. d. Panels General • Enclosures shall be provided with space for future addition of instruments. Fully loaded enclosures shall not be acceptable. Enclosures shall be oversized by . • Separate terminal blocks shall be installed for 120 volt AC wiring and for low level signal wiring within enclosures. Terminal blocks for line voltage wiring shall be separated from low level signal wiring by a barrier partition. • Each enclosure shall be provided with a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door, which shall be used to contain “as built” control diagrams serving the respective system. Plastic sleeve to contain controller directory indicating all input and output points labeled as per “as built” drawings. • Provide a 120 volt, 60 hertz duplex convenience outlet within each enclosure. Convenience outlet shall be provided with dedicated circuit breaker protection 5 Amp max. Execution • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 501 2023 • All wiring shall be contained neatly within plastic panduit. o Low voltage and line voltage wiring shall be routed through separate panduits. • Enclosure shall be provided with all required transformers and a main circuit breaker to disconnect all power serving the enclosure. • All transformers shall be mounted within an enclosure. Transformers will not be permitted to be installed out of enclosures. • For pressure switch alarms, provide a manual reset pushbutton switch with indicating light mounted on the face of the enclosure door. o Pushbutton shall allow an operator to reset a pressure alarm. The system shall remain off until manually reset via the pushbutton. a. Control Panel All materials used for the control panel must be UL listed and wired up under the standards of the National Electrical Code. The BMS subcontractor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers, power supplies, transformers, relays, terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. See figure CPL 01 for references. If the control panel has an external power source, see Figure CPL 04 as a reference. The Control Panel must consider the following points: • Circuit Breaker (CB) The control panel must have a main circuit breaker (CB) whose label will be: CB MP. This CB must be selected according to the total load that will be used in the control panel; see figure CPL 01A for a power diagram. • Power Supply (PS) If power supplies are used to feed 24