risk of heart disease compared to people without these diseases, and they tend to develop atherosclerosis at earlier ages than the general population. During your cardiovascular risk assessment, we perform cholesterol blood pressure blood sugar testing and, when needed, cardiac imaging. This includes carotid artery ultrasound cardiac calcium scoring to evaluate plaque buildup in the carotid and coronary arteries, respectively. We also talk with you about your lifestyle, including the role and exercise play in improving your heart health. Based on our conversations, the testing and imaging results, and understanding of your underlying condition, we develop a plan that is focused on reducing your risk of heart disease. To schedule an appointment at the Cardio-Rheumatology Program, please call us at For general information, please email program director Dr. Michael S. Garshick CVDPrevention@NYULangone.org Prospective and existing suppliers can learn more about conducting business with NYU Langone Health. COVID-19 Policies for Vendors and Suppliers All contractors are expected to comply with NYU Langone Health’s COVID-19 policies and are required to receive the first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine by September 27, 2021, and the second dose by October 25, 2021. If necessary, contractors must contact their employer to seek a medical exemption. NYU Langone reserves the right to review any approved exemption to ensure that we can accommodate that exemption. Any contractor who is not fully vaccinated is required to take a biweekly nasopharyngeal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test . If a contractor does not take their biweekly PCR test, they will be removed from the premises. Information for Prospective Suppliers Any payee by NYU Langone is considered a supplier. NYU Langone only pays approved suppliers. Approved suppliers are those companies NYU Langone wishes to do business with that: have completed an electronic New Supplier Application have provided a current Form W-8BEN or W-9 during that process are not under federal indictment or under other financial sanctions If an individual passes the requirements of an independent contractor, as defined by the Internal Revenue Service, and is not engaging in services that may be considered employment, he or she may complete an Independent Contractor Questionnaire that will be approved and evaluated by NYU Langone. Payee Registration and Management All suppliers and service providers, also referred to as payees, must be invited to register with PaymentWorks. Existing payees who do not have a PaymentWorks account must request an invitation from their contact at NYU Langone. PaymentWorks invitations are reviewed by the appropriate parties within the organization, which are dependent upon the type of goods or services provided. PaymentWorks registration requires tax ID information, banking information, and any other key data that is necessary to validate the identity of the payee. It is critical that payees complete the registration process accurately and in a timely fashion. PaymentWorks validation specialists review all payee registrations. After registration is approved, payees can manage their account information as needed. For PaymentWorks support, email Support@PaymentWorks.com Terms and Conditions Purchase Orders Even when a contract is signed, NYU Langone requires a purchase order (PO) in order to facilitate payment of invoices. Purchase orders must be referenced on every invoice. Orders for goods and services must be made via PO, or a contract supported by a PO, and placed by our purchasing department. Department personnel may only place orders provided they have a standing PO for services. Purchase Order Acknowledgements NYU Langone requires that suppliers acknowledge POs, including POs for services to be used for billing. Suppliers not having accurate PO numbers will result in delay of processing of invoices and payment. Payment Terms NYU Langone’s standard payment terms are 45 days for new suppliers, unless consideration is offered in the form of contract pricing, in which both consideration and payment terms shall be agreed upon upfront in the contract. It is permissible to have standard payment terms established for a supplier and subsequent contracts, depending on the goods and or services provided, may carry nonstandard payment terms. Vendormate NYU Langone’s supplier credentialing program is a mandatory program designed to ensure the safety of our patients and staff while conducting business with outside companies. This also insures that the companies that NYU Langone does business with are not a risk to the financial well-being of the institution and that NYU Langone Health meets its obligations to the regulatory and compliance laws of the industry. Vendormate is a company that is responsible for gathering, compiling, reviewing, and storing data from suppliers to ensure they meet the criteria to maintain the ability to do business with NYU Langone. We request that all suppliers register with Vendormate. Even if the vendor does not come on site, we request that the vendor register and be compliant with the program, which carries an annual fee, none of which is paid to NYU Langone. Invoices NYU Langone requires goods and services be billed on unique invoices, in a manner that does not lead to duplicate invoicing. The following key fields must be present on an invoice in order for it to be applied to a PO for payment: company name unique invoice/document number invoice date PO number a description of services or the quantity and price of goods delivered remittance address, even required when payment is by Automated Clearing House (ACH) Invoice Submission Invoices, with a PO number referenced, should be submitted electronically. Based upon the anticipated volume of activities, we ask that you either participate in one of our established programs for submitting invoices or that you email PDF images, with each invoice being its own PDF document, to NYU Langone Health at NYULMC@DigiScribe.info . Suppliers should not send invoices to individual departments within the respective organizations or their satellite offices, as that will further delay processing and payments. Payments NYU Langone issues payments for invoices based on vendor net terms, or when applicable, net terms specified in a contract as evident on an NYU Langone-issued PO. In support of go-green initiatives and in an effort to reduce the risk of lost checks, we encourage our vendors to take advantage of electronic payments via the United States American Bankers Association ACH. A remittance notification is emailed for every disbursement detailing the invoices paid on the ACH payment. Environmental and Socially Responsible Procurement NYU Langone prides itself on efforts to be as environmentally and socially responsible as possible. View our full Noninvasive Cardiac Imaging & Testing 212-263-5664 212-263-8461 Our cardiologists at specialize in using two- and three-dimensional echocardiography to diagnose and manage conditions that affect the way blood moves through your heart. We provide care to patients hospitalized for treatment as well as to those being cared for as outpatients. Using these advanced imaging techniques, our cardiologists perform noninvasive and minimally invasive procedures, such as cardiac catheterization and open heart surgery, to diagnose and help manage heart conditions that previously would have required invasive techniques. These conditions include atrial fibrillation congenital heart defects in adults We also provide noninvasive diagnostic testing when you experience symptoms related to coronary heart disease, such as , atherosclerosis, and blood clots. Our specialists at NYU Langone Heart help to manage symptoms related to coronary artery disease. Types of Echocardiography Our cardiologists use three forms of echocardiography: Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE), the most common form, is performed by moving a transducer across your chest to create a two- or three-dimensional picture of the beating heart. Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) is an internal exam performed with mild sedation, in which a scope with a tiny camera at the end is moved down the throat. This provides our doctors with clearer pictures of the aorta and structures at the back of the heart than can be obtained with transthoracic echocardiogram. Stress echocardiography compares pictures of your heart at rest with pictures of your heart after moderate exercise. Echocardiograms are available to both inpatients and outpatients. Additional Noninvasive Cardiac Tests We also provide the following noninvasive cardiac tests: Vascular ultrasound allows doctors to detect blood clots and blockages in the arteries and veins throughout the body, including in the aorta, carotid, and renal arteries, and in vessels in the legs and arms. Holter monitoring is performed by placing on your chest painless electronic leads, which are connected to a monitor you carry for 24 to 48 hours. The monitor collects information about your heart’s electrical activity and can detect conditions affecting the speed and rhythm of your heartbeat. Echocardiogram strain imaging allows doctors to evaluate how well the heart muscle is functioning. It is most commonly performed to monitor heart health in people receiving chemotherapy, as well as in those with cardiomyopathy or heart failure. When performed on an outpatient basis, most echocardiography procedures take about one hour. Because mild sedation is necessary with a transesophageal echocardiogram, this procedure requires an additional two hour recovery time. Our testing facilities have received echocardiography accreditation from the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission and are accredited by the American College of Radiology. Our cardiologists are specially trained in noninvasive cardiac techniques. Edward J. Bernaski John A. Dodson Robert M. Donnino RF Robin S. Freedberg Albert S. Jung Eugene E. Kim AN Ambika C. Nayar Adriana Quinones-Camacho Roxana Vartolomei Our Affiliated Cardiac Programs If you have been diagnosed with heart failure, we can provide the treatment and education you need to live life to its fullest. We are world leaders in the treatment of heart valve disease. Puzzling Symptoms Lead Neurologists to Translational Finding Autonomic Disorders Research Informs New Treatment Pathways Test May Find Early Sign of Neurological Disease A Tiny Worm Offers a Surprising Window Onto the Brain Our Adult Congenital Heart Disease Specialists Congenital heart disease is most often diagnosed in childhood, but the medical needs are lifelong. NYU Langone’s brings together a team of medical experts to help you maintain your overall health and provides you with specialized care if an emergency arises. Learn more about our adult congenital heart disease experts. Congenital Cardiology Dan G. Halpern, MD Adam Small, MD Cardiothoracic Surgery Ralph S. Mosca, MD T.K. Susheel Kumar, MD Electrophysiology Frank Cecchin, MD Larry A. Chinitz, MD Interventional Cardiology Michael Argilla, MD Sunil Saharan, MD Cezar S. Staniloae, MD Mathew R. Williams, MD Randal I. Goldberg, MD Alex Reyentovich, MD Imaging Puneet Bhatla, MD Muhamed Saric, MD, PhD Pediatric Cardiology Reproductive Services Meghana Limaye, MD Young Mi Lee, MD Christina A. Penfield, MD Ashley S. Roman, MD We have locations throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Diagnosis & Treatment Preparing for Your Cardiac Catheterization Procedure Interventional Cardiology Experts Each year, our interventional cardiologists perform 20,000 cardiac catheterization procedures. Advanced Cardiac Care Our doctors excel in treating complex blockages in the arteries of the heart, legs, kidneys, and neck, including chronic total occlusion. , our interventional cardiologists provide minimally invasive, catheter-based techniques to prevent, diagnose, and treat cardiovascular disease, including peripheral artery disease , and heart valve disease. We also provide emergency treatment for people experiencing life-threatening events, such as heart attack. Innovation in Heart Disease Care Our doctors lead research into next-generation stent technology and improving our understanding and management of heart disease. Learn About Our Cardiology Research Our researchers continually work to improve how we treat heart diseases, helping us provide the most innovative diagnostic and interventional cardiac catheterization techniques in our laboratory. Our interventional cardiologists provide treatment for the most complex, high-risk blockages. During cardiac catheterization, our specialists guide a long, hollow tube called a catheter through a vessel in the groin or the arm to reach the vessels of the heart. The catheter allows interventional cardiologists to use special tools to look for blocked arteries through a coronary angiogram or other diagnostic tests, and when necessary, perform procedures such as stenting to restore healthy blood flow. Your doctor will discuss with you how to prepare for cardiac catheterization and what to expect during and after the procedure. Based on the diagnosis, your doctor may recommend specific treatment or interventional procedures such as stenting to open blockages. As soon as a diagnosis is made, our doctors explain treatment options to you and begin the interventional procedure. Our Locations We provide cardiac catheterization at the following laboratory locations: in Manhattan We care for patients who are experiencing heart attacks or other cardiac events at the emergency departments at Routine and scheduled catheterizations are coordinated by your referring physician, who helps you make an appointment. Doctors at the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory help people with a wide variety of cardiovascular conditions achieve the very best recovery outcome with the lowest risk. Sunil Rao Director, Interventional Cardiology, NYU Langone Health Atul Sharma Director, Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Michael J. Attubato Anvar Babaev Ramanjit Bagga Sripal Bangalore Marian David Shilpa A. DeSouza Pulmonary Hypertension Specialist Joshua R. Deleon Daniel Donohue Ayman Farid George Fernaine MD, MBA Christopher L. Gade Anthony T. Gambino WH Wissam N. Hoyek Timothy G. Jayasundera Waqas Khan Kevin P. Marzo Thao Ngo Sameet Palkhiwala Stylianos P. Papadakos Arthur Rusovici View All 38 Doctors & 38 Our surgeons are pioneers in the use of transcatheter-based, minimally invasive techniques to treat mitral valve disease and aortic valve disease. Learn More About the Heart Valve Center We provide advanced treatment for all types of heart rhythm disorders, including atrial fibrillation. Our caring team helps determine the best treatment for your unique heart condition. Our doctors are among the most experienced in the country and have treated thousands of people with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Learn More About the Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Program We are accredited by the Adult Congenital Heart Association as an Adult Congenital Heart Disease Comprehensive Care Center. Learn More About the Adult Congenital Heart Disease Program Our specialized team of doctors is dedicated to preventing and reversing cardiovascular disease. Leading the Nation with Lowest Heart Attack Mortality Family Travel Clinic Prepares College Students for Travel Health Safety Tips for Summer Travel from NYU Winthrop Support During ECMO It can be stressful when your loved one is receiving mechanical circulatory support or extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) treatment. ECMO is used after other treatments for the heart and lungs, including medications, extra oxygen, or a mechanical ventilator, have not been enough to help the body heal. ECMO is a heart–lung support device that takes over the work of those organs, so they can heal. Tubing, monitors, and machines are part of the treatment, and your loved one might look different due to swelling related to the treatment. These physical changes usually go away after ECMO treatment is complete. How the ECMO Procedure Works A surgeon threads plastic tubes, called cannulas, through blood vessels in the patient’s neck, chest, or leg, connecting them to the heart. One tube brings blood to the ECMO machine, where it receives oxygen. The other tube returns blood to the body. Often another small tube goes from the mouth or nose to the stomach to provide nutrition to patients who are unable to eat solid food during ECMO care. Throughout treatment, an intensive care unit nurse monitors the patient at all times. Some patients may be unconscious, because they have received a medication that makes them sleep. This reduces the amount of oxygen they need, which helps in the healing process. However, some patients may be able to participate in physical therapy while on ECMO support. Any procedures or tests the patient may need are often done at the bedside. If that is not possible, the ECMO team travels with the patient to ensure their safe care. The amount of time that patients receive ECMO support depends on the extent of their illness. To ease your concerns about ECMO care, we encourage you to participate in daily rounds, where you can meet your loved one’s care team. The care team is made up of highly trained specialists, including doctors, nurses, respiratory therapists, and perfusionists, who operate the ECMO machines. Feel free to ask questions and share with us any information you think might be important for your loved one’s care. Supporting Patients and Families During ECMO We encourage you to visit your loved one in accordance with our visitor guidelines . When patients are sleeping, you can still talk to them, play music, or simply sit and be a calming presence. We also offer that ease stress, and guidance from . It is also important to remember to take care of your own needs, making sure you get the rest and proper meals you need to stay healthy and strong during this stressful time. After our medical team transitions your loved one from the treatment, ongoing care is often required, including additional mechanical circulatory support devices or a ventilator to assist the heart and lungs as your loved one regains strength. The length of this process is unique to each person. We encourage you to talk to our medical team for more information. Treatment at the Adult ECMO Program , our team uses mechanical circulatory support and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) to take over the work of a person’s heart and lungs, allowing them to heal. Mechanical circulatory support and ECMO can help treat people experiencing cardiogenic shock related to or heart attack, or acute respiratory failure related to acute respiratory distress syndrome, lung failure, pneumonia, or . These types of treatments can last a few hours or for up to a few weeks. Our medical team at transitions patients from the treatment as soon as it is safe to do so. There are two main types of ECMO devices: venoarterial ECMO, which supports both the heart and lungs, and venovenous ECMO, which mainly supports the lungs. A mechanical circulatory support device only supports the heart. ECMO and other support devices are used after other remedies, such as medications, extra oxygen, or a mechanical ventilator, prove insufficient to keep oxygenated blood circulating through the body. These treatments are initiated via a surgical procedure that requires anesthesia. The surgeon places plastic tubes called cannulas into blood vessels in the patient’s neck, chest, or leg. These tubes connect to the heart, transporting blood to the ECMO machine, where it is enriched with oxygen and then returned to the body. ECMO Treatment for Acute Respiratory Failure Venovenous ECMO aids recovery in a person who has severely injured lungs and is experiencing acute respiratory failure. This treatment is most often used to care for people experiencing severe lung infections, such as COVID-19, pneumonia, and influenza; inflammatory diseases of the lung, such as acute respiratory distress syndrome; and severe airway disease conditions, such as status asthmaticus, a severe form of asthma. Our team selects the most appropriate approach for each patient, which can include venovenous ECMO and other treatments. Some people with severe lung disease may benefit from venovenous ECMO before a Mechanical Circulatory Support and ECMO for Cardiogenic Shock During acute heart failure following cardiogenic shock, a mechanical circulatory support device helps the heart function. Our experts may use this device as a temporary treatment that could lead to recovery, a treatment before a long-term device is implanted, such as a ventricular assist device , or as a treatment before a or lung transplant. Devices used by our team include the following: temporary biventricular assist device (BiVAD), to support both of the heart’s ventricles temporary left ventricular assist device, to support the heart’s left ventricle temporary right ventricular assist device, to support the heart’s right ventricle venoarterial ECMO (VA ECMO), to support the lungs and the heart’s two ventricles Our team works with you to select the appropriate device for your particular condition. Please refer to our financial statement here State Charitable Solicitation Disclosures Financial and other information about NYU Langone Health’s purposes, programs, and activities can be obtained by contacting Edward.Berkovitz@nyulangone.org , One Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016, (212) 404-3844 , or for residents of the following states, as stated below: Florida: A COPY OF THE OFFICIAL REGISTRATION AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE DIVISION OF CONSUMER SERVICES BY CALLING TOLL-FREE WITHIN THE STATE, 1-800-HELPFLA (1-800-435-7352) , OR VIA THE INTERNET AT https://www.fdacs.gov/ConsumerResources/Charities REGISTRATION DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION BY THE STATE. Florida registration number: SC. No. CH33353. Kansas: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Kansas Attorney General's Office at (785) 296-3751 Maryland: For the cost of copies and postage, from the Secretary of State, State House, Annapolis, MD 21401. Minnesota: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Charities Registar, 445 Minnesota Street, Suite 1400, St. Paul, MN 55101-2131. Mississippi: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the Mississippi Secretary of State’s office by calling 1-888-236-6167 . Registration by the Secretary of State does not imply endorsement by the Secretary of State. New Jersey: INFORMATION FILED WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL CONCERNING THIS CHARITABLE SOLICITATION AND THE PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED BY THE CHARITY DURING THE LAST REPORTING PERIOD THAT WERE DEDICATED TO THE CHARITABLE PURPOSE MAY BE OBTAINED FROM THE ATTORNEY GENERAL OF THE STATE OF NEW JERSEY BY CALLING ( 973) 504-6215 AND IS AVAILABLE ON THE INTERNET AT http://www.state.nj.us/lps/ca/charfrm.htm. REGISTRATION WITH THE ATTORNEY GENERAL DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT. New York: A copy of our most recently filed financial report is available from the Charities Registry on the New York State Attorney General’s website or, upon request, by contacting the New York State Attorney General, Charities Bureau, 28 Liberty Street, New York, NY 10005, or (212) 416-8401 . Unless otherwise restricted by the gift instrument pursuant to paragraph 553(b) of the NY Not-For-Profit Corporation Law, the institution may expend so much of an endowment fund as it deems prudent after considering the factors set forth in section 553(a) of the Not-For-Profit Corporation Law. You can obtain a description of the programs and activities that your contribution will support by contacting us at the above address. North Dakota: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be obtained from the North Dakota Secretary of State at (800)-352-0867 Oklahoma: The official registration and financial information of NYU Langone Health may be requested from the Office of the Secretary of State, State of Oklahoma. South Carolina: Financial Statements are available from the South Carolina Secretary of State, Division of Public Charities, 1205 Pendleton Street, Suite 525, Columbia, SC 29201. Utal: Financial Statements are available from the Utah Division of Consumer Protection, 160 East 300 South, 2nd Floor, PO Box 146704, Salt Lake City, UT 84114-6704. Washington: Additional financial disclosure information is available from the office of the Secretary of State at 1-800-332-4483 http://www.sos.wa.gov/charities/ Wisconsin: A financial statement of the charitable organization disclosing assets, liabilities, fund balances, revenue, and expenses for the preceding fiscal year will be provided to any person upon request. CONTRIBUTIONS ARE DEDUCTIBLE FOR FEDERAL INCOME TAX PURPOSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW. REGISTRATION IN A STATE DOES NOT IMPLY ENDORSEMENT, APPROVAL, OR RECOMMENDATION OF NYU LANGONE HEALTH BY THAT STATE. If you have questions about giving to NYU Langone Health, you can reach us by phone or email using the information below. General Giving Let us know if you have questions about giving to NYU Langone Health. Charitable Gift Planning We are happy to work with you and your adviser to determine the type of gift that best fits your financial and philanthropic goals. plannedgiving@nyulangone.org Foundation Relations We welcome partnerships with foundations looking to support our progress in research, education, and care. foundations@nyulangone.org Fundraising Events NYU Langone Health fundraisers help us drive progress and innovation by raising crucial funds for the institution. If you have questions about hosting a fundraising event, we're here to help. c ommunitygiving@nyulangone.org Community Partnerships We welcome the opportunity to partner with you. Contact us to learn more. communitygiving@nyulangone.org Personal Fundraising Pages Whether you're celebrating a birthday, honoring a loved one, or simply inspired to raise money for NYU Langone Health, contact us. Corporate Giving Learn how your company can make a difference. Frequently Asked Questions and Answers We are always here to help. Please review the answers to our most frequently asked questions below. Making a Gift Can I make a gift online? You can make a tax-deductible gift online using this secure form Can I make a gift in memory of a loved one? Yes, a gift in memory of a loved one helps create a lasting legacy. View the answers to our most frequently asked questions about memorial gifts for more information. When making a gift in honor of someone, can I honor and notify multiple people? Yes, please Can I donate stocks or other securities? Donating appreciated stocks, bonds, and mutual fund shares to NYU Langone Hospitals or NYU Grossman School of Medicine may be a financially beneficial way to help NYU Langone Health. The total value of the securities upon transfer is tax deductible and there is no obligation to pay capital gains taxes on the appreciation. To get started, complete the Securities Transfer Form Can I donate by wire transfer? Yes, to transfer funds electronically from your bank account to NYU Langone Health or NYU Grossman School of Medicine, complete the Wire Transfer Form How can I donate by phone or mail? To give by phone, please call 646-929-7958 To give by mail, please make your check out to NYU Langone Health and send to: Office of Development and Alumni Affairs One Park Avenue, 5th Floor Can I give cash or cash equivalents? These can either be paid outright in a single installment or as a pledge to be fulfilled over a period of several years. A cash gift (covered in many different payment options including check, credit card, wire transfer) may entitle the donor to a charitable deduction of up to 60% of adjusted gross income annually, with a carry-over provision of up to five years should the value of the gift exceed 60% of the individual donor’s adjusted gross income. Please consult your individual tax advisor to determine how much of your contribution is deductible. Can I give through a Donor Advised Fund (DAF)? A Donor Advised Fund, or DAF, is philanthropic giving vehicle that works like a charitable savings account. It allows you to make a charitable contribution, receive an immediate tax deduction, and then recommend grants from your fund right away or over time. If you are interested in recommending a grant to NYU Langone Health, please contact your sponsoring organization directly or contact us at How can I learn more about IRA charitable rollover gifts or qualified charitable distributions (QCD)? If you are 70½ or older, you can donate up to $100,000 per tax year from your individual retirement account (IRA) directly to NYU Langone Health. For more information, please contact your IRA administrator or contact us at 212-404-3681. Can I make a monthly (or sustaining) gift online? Yes, please use this to make a monthly gift to NYU Langone. How do I cancel my monthly (or sustaining) gift? Simply and we’ll execute and confirm the cancellation. Tax Receipting How do I receive a tax receipt or tax acknowledgement replacement? Online donations will receive an emailed acknowledgment right after the gift is processed. Mailed donations will receive an acknowledgement in the mail within 15 days once the gift is processed. We would be happy to send you a duplicate copy of your tax acknowledgement letter. Please and be sure to include your full name and complete mailing address, as well as the date and amount of your donation. How do I receive a tax receipt if I donated to a NYU Langone through a Facebook fundraiser? When someone makes a donation through a Facebook Fundraiser, a payment receipt is sent by Facebook to the primary email listed on the donor’s Facebook account. This payment receipt includes the organization’s tax ID number and confirms that the person has made a donation as a charitable contribution and that they’re not receiving any goods or services in return. Donors through Facebook Fundraisers may also find their donation under “Payment History” on Facebook, where a receipt can be printed. What is NYU Langone’s tax ID? NYU Langone Health's tax ID is 133971298. Privacy What is the NYU Langone privacy policy? You can view NYU Langone’s privacy policy Does give.nyulangone.org use cookies? Do What You Love to Raise Funds Rally your community and start a campaign to help patients, doctors, and researchers—and improve health everywhere. You Can Do Anything to Make an Impact. Dream Big. Give Back. Honor Someone Special Help others while you recognize someone who has made a difference for you. Get Started Donate Your Birthday Invite your friends and family to change lives in lieu of birthday gifts. Host an Event Bring your community together to bring about the best in medicine. Get Creative The sky’s the limit. What will you do to make your mark on medicine? How It Works Create your campaign, set your goal, and tell your story. Share your campaign and track your progress. Give Thanks Celebrate with your supporters when you reach your goal. Transform Health in Brooklyn with Team NYU Langone Run with us at the Brooklyn Marathon to end cancer disparities in Brooklyn. Run, walk, bike or swim with Team NYU Langone Learn more about our athletic fundraising opportunities. Make An Impact Looking for an existing fundraising page? Celebrate With Us for CCFK We’re raising funds for NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids—Mineola (CCFK) in memory of little eight-year-old Adam. Read More Help Kids Who Need It Most A gift of any amount can impact the lives of patients and families at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Pediatric Center. Bring Hope to Children With Serious Illnesses Support Child Life services at Hassenfeld Children's Hospital and ensure countless kids have the joy and comfort they need. Looking to join us for an event? Come Together and Give Back Join us for an event and help raise awareness and funds for a cause that means the most to you. Browse Events Type: Sort by: Upcoming Event FACES Gala 2025 Mar 3, 2025 - 6:30 PM - 9:30 PM Pier Sixty at Chelsea Piers, 60 Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 Past Event Sala-bration 2024 $3,217,155 celebrated in fundraising for Sala Institute 130 attendees Nov 12, 2024 6:00 PM - 9:00 PM Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone New York, NY 10016 2024 Urology FunRaiser $1.4 million raised 52 Sep 30, 2024 5:00 PM - 8:30 PM The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion424 East 34th Street, 7th FloorNew York, NY 10016 freshFACES 2024 $200k+ 220+ Sep 12, 2024 7:00 PM - 10:00 PM Camp David at Industry City237 36th StreetBrooklyn, NY 11232 NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic 2024 $660,000 300 Jun 3, 2024 All Day Glen Oaks Club Sala-bration 2023 205 $2.1 million Nov 6, 2023 Bohemian National Hall New York, NY 10128 2024 FACES Gala 700+ $5.5 million Mar 4, 2024 Pier Sixty at Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 2024 Alumni Reunion 436 Apr 12, 2024 - Apr 13, 2024 - 11:00 PM 2023 Urology FunRaiser $1.25 million 70 Sep 27, 2023 The Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Pavilion424 East 34th Street, 7th FloorNew York, NY 10016 The D10 Nov 16, 2024 - Jul 29, 2024 Florida International University 1 2 Next » Get Inspired by Our Community Each and every day, members of our NYU Langone community find new ways to set medical progress in motion. Read their stories. Browse Inspiring Stories Categories: Just Move! From Cancer Diagnosis to Weight-Lifting Champ I thought I had 90 days to live. Now I’m a national powerlifting champion. more Running Up Heartbreak Hill for Palliative Cancer Care At age 60, I decided to run my first marathon in support of NYU Langone’s palliative care team. From the NICU to the Soccer Field Samara Sweig shares her experience of having twin girls prematurely and how she’s giving back today through Sala Institute. A Community Lifted Me Up I found new family during my year of cancer treatment. Learning Critical Communication Skills to Enhance Care Sala partners with NYU Grossman School of Medicine to provide lessons to pediatric residents. Ensuring Care for Future Patients Announcing a new Campaign for Sala Institute to meet the needs of children and families when they need it most. Teaching the Teachers How NYU Grossman School of Medicine is reimagining teaching and learning. Teaching Digital Health Prepping practitioners and students for medicine’s tech evolution. Taking the ‘Ouch’ Out of Shots How to help make a child’s vaccination experience positive. 3 Load More Dreaming Big. Giving Back. Because of Sala, teens, too, are empowered and engaged in the design of care through the Youth Advisory Council. Why Give to NYU Langone? Because your support helps us bring world-class care to every community, offer expert medical training, conduct groundbreaking research, and more. Revolutionize Care with Us We strive to deliver the best outcomes to our patients. Your generosity strengthens our ability to bring hope and healing to our communities by supporting a variety of inpatient and outpatient programs, as well as our investment in new state-of-the-art facilities—in Manhattan and beyond. specialties in top 10 of rankings No. 1 for Ambulatory Care Quality and Accountability according to Vizient 300+ locations for world-class care across New York City, Long Island, and Florida Build the Future with Us Your support today has a tremendous impact on tomorrow’s medical leaders by connecting our gifted students with the highest-caliber training programs and allowing us to offer every student enrolled in our MD degree programs full-tuition scholarships as part of our tuition-free initiative. From expanding my horizons to helping me fulfill my long-term goals, the full-tuition scholarship has empowered me to become the best version of myself. Elisa Warda '25 Student Inspire Progress with Us When the most difficult medical questions emerge, our dedicated researchers always rise to the occasion. Your contributions allow our investigators to keep making the trailblazing discoveries that make history and provide them with the resources they need to change lives. 1st medical school in the nation to award full-tuition scholarships to all MD degree candidates 7,600+ nurses