skin. We also use sequential digital dermoscopic monitoring, which allows us to detect skin cancer at the earliest stages while performing fewer biopsies of harmless lesions. The latest addition to our noninvasive diagnostic toolkit is an imaging technology called reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM). RCM is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration–approved, noninvasive imaging tool that is designed to capture highly magnified images of the skin in real time, at a nearly microscopic level. It provides a more accurate diagnosis of melanoma than any other skin examination method. This leads to detection of very early stage melanomas, particularly on the face, and fewer biopsies of benign lesions. RCM may also be used as a guide for biopsies of large, atypical lesions on the face that may be a symptom of lentigo maligna, a slow-growing form of melanoma found on skin that has received a lot of sun damage. This tool can also be used for presurgical imaging of skin cancers that have been already biopsied. This allows our surgeons to use smaller margins of normal skin when removing skin cancers, preventing unnecessarily large scars in areas where tissue preservation is of importance—for example, on the face, hands, feet, or the genitals—and reducing the risk of local recurrence. When biopsy—the removal of a small skin sample—is necessary to analyze a suspicious lesion, our expert dermatopathologists provide quick and precise analysis, allowing you to receive an accurate diagnosis as soon as possible. Diagnosing and removing melanoma at its earliest stages offers you the best chance for a full recovery. Our Pigmented Lesions and Melanoma Team Our team of dermatologists has extensive experience in evaluating and diagnosing atypical nevi and melanoma. We collaborate actively with physicians as needed to provide the highest-quality care. Amanda Levine, MD Tracey Liebman, MD Dermatology, Melanoma Dermatology David Polsky, MD, PhD Jennifer A. Stein, MD, PhD Top quality and safety standards reflect our commitment to excellence and the best outcomes for our patients. NYU Langone Ranks No. 1 in the U.S. for Quality & Safety Read About Our Care Featured Care and Services Whether you need a routine checkup or heart valve replacement, our doctors help you reach and maintain your optimal health, while providing the highest standard of care and the most advanced treatment options. Our providers are your partners in helping you get and stay healthy. Get same-day treatment for common, non-emergency illnesses and injuries. From X-ray to MRI, our radiology experts offer the most advanced imaging services. Our orthopedic doctors provide exceptional care for conditions of the bones, joints, and muscles. Our cardiologists and cardiac surgeons work together to deliver seamless care. Brain and Spine Care We are leaders in the treatment of complex brain and spinal cord conditions. All Care and Services We have the expertise and provide the full range of patient care and services to meet all your healthcare needs. Specialists at offer the latest advances in cancer treatment. Care for children is provided through Search Care and Services 393 Results Abdominal Core Health & Hernia Program Learn About This Program Acute Care Surgery Addiction Psychiatry Adolescent Medicine Adrenal Surgery Program Learn About This Specialty Adult Hospital Medicine Adult Psychiatry Consult Airway Center Learn About This Center Alzheimer’s Disease & Related Dementias Family Support Program Anatomic Pathology Anesthesiology Anosmia Center Asthma Program Audiology Behcet’s Disease Center Blood Banking Bloodless Medicine & Surgery Program Learn About This Service Bone Health Bone Marrow Transplant Brain Injury Rehabilitation Breast Cancer Surgery Breast Imaging Breast Pathology Breast Plastic Surgery Bronchiectasis & NTM Program Cardiac Anesthesiology Cardiac Electrophysiology Cardiac Imaging Cardio-Oncology Cardio-Rheumatology Care on Demand Center for Ankle Arthritis Center for Arthritis & Autoimmunity Center for Brachial Plexus Injuries Chest Imaging Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Child & Adolescent Psychology Child Protection Clinical Neurophysiology Clinical Neuropsychology Clinical Pathology Cochlear Audiology Cornea External Disease & Refractive Surgery Cosmetic Plastic Surgery Critical Care Critical Care Anesthesiology Critical Care Surgery Cytopathology Dementia & Alzheimer's Dentistry Dermatologic Surgery Dermatopathology Developmental & Behavioral Pediatrics Dietitian Nutritionist Endocrine Surgery Endourology & Stone Disease Esophageal Gastroenterology Executive Physicals Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery Family Medicine Family Travel Medicine Center at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery Foot & Ankle Surgery Forensic Pathology Gender Affirming Surgery General Pediatric Services in Manhattan Geriatric Cardiology Program Gout Treatment Center Gynecologic Oncology Hand Plastic Surgery Hand Therapy Hand & Wrist Surgery Headache Medicine Hearing & Balance Center Hematology Hematopathology Hip & Knee Reconstruction Infectious Disease Allergy and Immunology Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program Internal Medicine Interventional Pulmonology Laboratory Medicine Laryngology & Voice Liver Care & Transplant Program Lupus Center Lymphedema Therapy Male Sexual and Reproductive Health Medicaid Reenrollment Services Melanoma Dermatology Melanoma Surgery Microsurgery Musculoskeletal Imaging Nerve Center Neuro-Anesthesiology Neuro-Critical Care Neuroendocrinology Neuro-Genetics Neurointerventional Radiology Neurologic Therapy Neuromuscular Medicine Neuro-Oncology Neuro-Ophthalmology Neuro-Otology Neuropathology Neuropsychiatry Neuroradiology Nuclear Cardiology NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center NYU Langone Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center Obesity Medicine Obstetric Anesthesiology Occupational Medicine Ocular Oncology Oncologic Imaging Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Optometry Oral-Maxillofacial Surgery Orthodontics Orthopedic Anesthesiology Orthopedic Rehabilitation Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Osteoporosis & Bone Health Program Osteoporosis & Osteopenia Otology & Neurotology Pain Rehabilitation Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Allergy Pediatric Allergy & Immunology Pediatric Anesthesiology Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Pediatric Critical Care Medicine Pediatric Dentistry Pediatric Dietitian Nutritionist Pediatric Emergency Medicine Pediatric Endocrinology Pediatric Epilepsy Pediatric Feeding & Swallowing Therapy Pediatric Gastroenterology & Hepatology Pediatric Hand Surgery Pediatric Hematology-Oncology Pediatric Hospital Medicine Pediatric Infectious Disease Pediatric Neurology Pediatric Neuro-Oncology Pediatric Neuropsychology Pediatric Ophthalmology Pediatric Optometry Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Pediatric Pathology Pediatric Pulmonology Pelvic Floor Therapy Podiatry Post-COVID Care Program Psoriatic Disease & Psoriatic Arthritis Psychosomatic Medicine Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery Reconstructive Plastic Surgery Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility Retinal Ophthalmology Rhinology Sarcoidosis Program Shoulder & Elbow Surgery Skin Allergy Dermatology Skin Autoimmune Disorders Skin & Cancer Unit Skull Base Surgery Sleep Disorders Program Sleep Medicine Speech Pathology Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Sports Occupational Therapy Sports Orthopedic Surgery Sports Physical Therapy Strabismus Surgical Oncology Swallow and Airway Thoracic Outlet Syndrome Program Thyroid Disorders TMJ Physical Therapy Toxicology Tracheal & Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program Transgender Endocrinology Transplant Surgery Uro-Gynecology Urologic Oncology Vascular Neurology Vitreoretinal Surgery Work Conditioning Therapy Sharing Insights, Advancing Medicine Sign up for specialty updates on practice-changing ideas and innovations from our experts at NYU Langone Health. Explore by Specialty View More Latest Articles Mapping the Molecular Mechanisms of Stress & Depression Dr. Carla Nasca on how a mitochondrial metabolite could yield a new disease biomarker and precision medicine strategy. AI-Generated Responses to Patient Questions on Thyroid Disease Are Accurate & Empathetic Study suggests AI may help improve the efficiency of patient–provider messaging and reduce the clinician workload. Top Honors Awarded to Cardiovascular Researcher for Work on Inflammation Dr. Kathryn Moore discusses the pioneering research on chronic inflammation that earned her a prestigious prize. Advancing Science Groundbreaking ‘Liquid Biopsy’ Detects Platelet Hyperreactivity Using genetic markers, researchers devise a score to assess risk of thrombosis-related cardiovascular events. Helping Families Achieve Excellent Glycemic Outcomes Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher discusses best practices for pediatric diabetes care. Clarifying the Role of Muscle Dysfunction in Vocal Trauma Literature on vocal fold injury has focused on the mucosa; now, researchers spotlight the laryngeal muscles. Most Popular Advancing Auvelity, a Novel Antidepressant Alternative to Ketamine A lead investigator behind the FDA approval of a new drug discusses its clinical advantages and research history. Direct Evidence of SARS-CoV-2 in Coronary Arteries Study finds SARS-CoV-2 can infect vascular macrophages, promoting inflammation that may increase stroke, heart attack risks. An AI Model for Digital Breast Tomosynthesis New AI model for 3D images improves breast cancer screening while reducing computational complexity. 13 Nationally Ranked Specialties Across nearly every metric of hospital and outpatient quality, NYU Langone Health ranks at the top. As well as having the most top 10-ranked specialties in New York according to U.S. News & World Report, 13 specialties are ranked nationally – with nine ranked in the top 5 – and NYU Langone is on the honor roll of the top hospitals in the nation. Our digital journal, Physician Focus highlights our latest innovations and research highlights. ‘We Aren’t Afraid to Innovate’—How to Embrace Risk in Surgery Cardiothoracic surgeon Dr. T.K. Susheel Kumar on taking calculated risks to advance pediatric heart surgery. How One of the Nation’s Largest Neurology Residency Programs Equips Trainees for Success Program director Dr. Arielle Kurzweil highlights the program’s innovative curriculum and approach to training. Bringing Women’s Cancer Care to the Forefront Dr. Elizabeth Comen spotlights the importance of listening to women’s concerns, in oncology and across all specialties. Calling for Uniform Prescribing After Cataract Surgery National survey reinforces the need for clear, evidence-based prescribing guidelines. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Advanced imaging and AI can rapidly and accurately detect prostate cancer in a biopsy. Histotripsy Makes Its Clinical Debut in NYC Recently approved by the FDA for liver tumors, histotripsy offers an array of advantages over thermal ablation techniques. Subscribe for Updates in Your Specialty Choose your interests to receive complex case studies, research highlights, physician perspectives, and other news in 15 adult specialties. Case Studies Case of the Month When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse A young MIBC survivor with prolapse wanted to stay physically and sexually active. Dr. Lauren Stewart knew sacrocolpopexy, despite its complexity, was the best option. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant Aware of risks, including significant failure to thrive, highly experienced surgeons performed a successful operation. Tiny Human, Giant Steps Aided by a multidisciplinary approach to rehabilitation, a severely premature infant makes the journey from the NICU to preschool. Research Advances How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder A recent fMRI study is the first to map neural networks affected by psilocybin in alcohol use disorder. New Institute Advances the Goal of Optimal Aging An expert in aging and epidemiology discusses how integrated research may help older adults improve their health and live longer New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support Research ramps up for an AI-powered app that connects healthcare workers to mental health resources. To refer a patient, Nurturing a Culture of Highest-Quality Care Chief Quality Officer Ilseung Cho, MD, discusses the deeper meaning and impact behind NYU Langone’s top accolades for care quality and safety. Before receiving care as a patient at NYU Langone, we ask that you review or sign several forms to make sure that you understand your rights and responsibilities. Prior to your hospital stay or doctor’s visit, forms and notices you need to review or sign are posted in your Download the NYU Langone Health App on the App Store or Google Play. You can read and sign forms in advance of your visit in order to expedite your check-in process. Review the patient notices and information for the following types of visits information for your first visit information for your hospital visit information for an observation visit information for visits to a doctor’s office Request and Share Your Medical Records You can request your medical records and share them with anyone you authorize, such as a healthcare professional, family member, or legal professional. Learn more about requesting your medical records You may be coming to NYU Langone for a doctor’s office appointment or for a hospital stay as an inpatient, outpatient, or for observation . The forms you need to fill out vary depending on the type of visit, which include the following: An inpatient stay at a hospital, which usually lasts more than two nights, often for surgery, medical treatments, or to stabilize a serious illness or injury. An outpatient stay, which may take place at a hospital or one of our outpatient care centers, where you may have tests, a variety of treatments, or minor surgery. The stay is typically a few hours. Observation, which is a specific kind of outpatient care. People under observation remain in a hospital bed while being monitored for a serious change in their medical condition, usually for less than 24 hours. During that time, a healthcare team decides if the patient needs to be admitted to the hospital. A visit to a doctor’s office to receive care from a physician or another medical professional. Forms for Your First Visit During your first visit to an NYU Langone facility, including a hospital, care location, or doctor’s office where the NYU Langone logo is displayed, you need to read and sign the Patient Privacy and HIPAA Rights forms . This information, along with our Health Information Exchange Fact Sheet and Consent Form, is also available in multiple languages . Learn more about HIPAA patient privacy information For your safety, we use the PatientSecure system. With biometric technology, the system scans a unique feature of your hand to simplify patient registration and provide the most accurate form of patient identification for future visits to NYU Langone. People coming for a hospital visit may need to review these notices and information: Acute Inpatient Rehabilitation Privacy Act (if you are admitted to Rusk Rehabilitation) Health Care Proxy Information Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form Hospital Disclosure Form Inpatient, Outpatient, and Observation Visit Information Release of Records for External Appeal Statement of Patient and Visitor Responsibilities Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State, which include the links below Deciding About Health Care Patients’ Bill of Rights Information Parents’ Bill of Rights Information We also provide hospital forms in several languages, including Chinese, English, Haitian–Creole, Italian, Korean, Russian, and Spanish. Notice for Your Observation Visit People coming for an observation visit need to review the following notice: Medicare Outpatient Observation Notice Forms for Visits to a Doctor’s Office If you are a patient who has not yet been to an NYU Langone doctor’s office, you can review the registration forms below in advance of your first office visit to help expedite the initial registration process. Please call your doctor’s office if you have questions about the forms. Summary of Faculty Group Practice (FGP) Financial Policies Additional Forms for Doctor’s Office Visits Review these additional forms that you may need during the course of your treatment at NYU Langone: Authorization for the Use and Disclosure PHI (release of information and instructions) Credit Card Storage and Authorization Form Deaf and Hard of Hearing Questionnaire Financial Assistance Application Medicaid Non-Par Waiver Medicare Opt-Out Waiver New York State Assignment of Benefit Non-Par Financial Acknowledgment Form NYU Langone Health MyChart Proxy Access Patient Consent Form for Interpreter Services Patient Information Change/Verification Form Workers Compensation/No Fault Insurance Registration Form 646-754-9607 Experts at NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center specialize in diagnosing and treating both simple and complex cases of gout. Our doctors also help people manage other forms of crystal-induced arthritis, such as calcium pyrophosphate arthritis, which is also known as pseudogout. Our mission is to help people with gout and related conditions live pain-free, healthy lives. Gout is a form of arthritis in which microscopic crystals of uric acid—a normal waste product in the blood—build up in the joints, causing inflammation. This leads to painful, intermittent attacks that can last for days, weeks, or even months. In some cases, the crystals combine into lumps called tophi, which can be large, chronically painful, and cause permanent damage to bone. People with gout commonly experience other health conditions—including , and cardiac disease—that may be directly related to gout. Gout is a chronic metabolic disease that is usually readily treatable but typically requires long-term management. Genetics are the primary risk factor, but diet and associated medical conditions may also increase risk. Treatment for Gout At NYU Langone’s Gout Treatment Center, we prescribe medications to treat acute attacks, prevent future attacks, and decrease the risk of long-term problems. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic and imaging tests to determine the severity of the condition and offer the most advanced treatments available, including medications to reduce pain and inflammation as well as guidance about lifestyle and dietary changes to ease symptoms. In addition, our experts conduct that provide access to investigational treatments for people with gout and related conditions. We also provide a variety of support services, including guidance about exercise, physical therapy, and pain management. Our rheumatologists are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of gout and other related conditions. Michael Toprover Clinical Director The NYU Langone Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity can help you manage rheumatologic conditions including , autoimmune disease during pregnancy, Behçet’s disease , gout, metabolic bone disease, mixed connective tissue disorders, osteoarthritis, , scleroderma and Raynaud’s disease, spondyloarthropathy and seronegative arthritis, Sjogren's syndrome In addition to providing exceptional care, we offer access to a vast array of additional services such as orthopedic and neurological consultative services, nutritional and psychological counseling, rehabilitation services, and the most advanced diagnostic testing available, including musculoskeletal ultrasound. Our experts provide specialized care through our Behçet’s Disease Center As leaders in clinical research, we provide our patients with access to new clinical trials and leading-edge therapies and treatments. We also provide techniques including arthrocentesis—a simple procedure using a needle to drain fluid from the joints—and injections of intra-articular steroid and hyaluronic acid to reduce inflammation and pain. , the Center for Arthritis and Autoimmunity provides unmatched multispecialty care in one convenient location, eliminating the need to travel to many separate locations for your care. Our more than 400 specialists include experts in rheumatology, rehabilitation medicine, orthopedics, neurology, radiology, pain management, physical and occupational therapy, exercise physiology, pharmacy, and nursing. Together with our staff and support staff, they collaborate to develop a holistic treatment plan specific to your unique needs. Our rheumatologists are internationally known for providing diagnosis, treatment and exceptional care for patients with systemic autoimmune diseases. David B. Beck Clinical Geneticist H. Michael Belmont Lupus Doctor Rebecca B. Blank Jill P. Buyon Margaret A. Coyle Sarah E. Davis Brian D. Golden Gary H. Ho Catherine R. Howe Euna Lee Eileen J. Lydon Johannes Nowatzky Amit Saxena Bruce M. Solitar Sara E. Stream View All 26 Doctors & 26 We have multiple locations throughout New York City, Long Island, Westchester County, and Florida. Condition-Focused Cardiac Care Cardiac Amyloidosis Program Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Center Geriatric Cardiology Cardiac Testing & Imaging Women's Cardiology Leaders in Cardiac Surgery We have a three-star rating—the highest given—from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Access to Top Care We have more than 300 cardiologists who specialize in the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of heart disease. At NYU Langone Heart, our doctors are dedicated to your cardiovascular health. Our specialists in provide safe, compassionate, high-quality care throughout our extensive network of hospitals and doctor’s offices. Whether you need a plan to prevent heart disease, a procedure to open a blocked artery or repair a valve, or even a new heart, our specialists work together seamlessly to provide you with the best-possible care. Mitral Valve Surgery We get patients home four days sooner after mitral valve procedures, according to the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Our cardiologists are the front line in the prevention and diagnosis of heart disease. They identify the root causes of your symptoms and create a personalized treatment plan to reverse , or other conditions that increase heart disease risk. They also play a vital role in managing conditions such as atrial fibrillation (AFib) . In addition, they provide specialized care to women people who have cancer or are cancer survivors and need to protect their heart health older adults who have cardiovascular disease If you require additional care, our interventional cardiologists and cardiac surgeons can perform procedures using transcatheter, robotic, or open approaches. We are one of the highest-volume centers for transcatheter mitral valve repair , which were pioneered by doctors at NYU Langone. We have also earned a three-star rating, the highest, from The Society of Thoracic Surgeons for mitral valve replacement and repair, aortic valve repair, and coronary artery bypass. Our is one of the top programs in the country, according to data from the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients. Our Care & Services Our cardiologists are experts in the prevention, diagnosis, and management of cardiovascular conditions. Learn More About Our Cardiology Care Our heart surgeons perform coronary artery bypass, mitral valve replacement and repair, and aortic valve replacement. may be hereditary, or it may be a sign of an underlying medical condition, such as nutritional deficiencies, thyroid imbalances, infections of the scalp, or an autoimmune disease. Hair loss can affect people of any age. Our dermatologists recognize that hair loss may affect how you feel about your appearance, and offer customized care and emotional support to help you feel like your best self. Among other treatments, we offer platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy, a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to promote regrowth. We also diagnose and treat other hair disorders, such as excessive hair growth, also called hirsutism. Hair Loss Services for Adults For adults who are experiencing hair loss, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) therapy is a procedure used to stimulate hair follicles to regrow hair. Growth factors from PRP are injected through the skin into the scalp, triggering and stimulating regrowth. Other treatments for hair loss may include oral, topical, or injectable medications, depending on the precise diagnosis made by your hair loss dermatologist. Diagnosing hair loss can be complex. Our specialists use advanced equipment to magnify the scalp on a screen for both you and your doctor to see. This allows your doctor to better provide a diagnosis and determine whether treatments are working. Other specialized equipment allows our doctors to establish your hair density and each hair’s width to determine whether the condition is improving. We are one of the very few centers in the United States with this advanced diagnostic equipment. We strive to find the best treatments for hair loss through research and education. NYU Langone is a research site for clinical trials, allowing us to offer our patients access to emerging treatments that promote hair growth. Hair Loss Services for Children Hair loss in children is usually accompanied by an underlying medical condition. Our pediatric dermatologists and hair loss specialists are experts in identifying the causes of hair loss in children. They can often treat the underlying condition or refer you to other specialists at for additional evaluation if needed. Our Hair Loss Team Our doctors specialize in providing hair loss services for people of all ages. Jerry Shapiro, MD Director of Hair and Scalp Disorders | Hair Loss, Dermatology Kristen Lo Sicco, MD Hair Loss, Dermatology Nikita R. Lakdawala, MD Dermatology, Pediatric Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology, Hair Loss Vikash S. Oza, MD Pediatric Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology The Geriatric Cardiology Program was established in order to address the needs of older adults with cardiovascular disease. Older adults who have heart disease, usually those over age 70, often have other medical illnesses as well, which makes treatment more challenging. For example, effective medications for heart disease may have an increased risk of side effects in older adults or may interact with other medications. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone the No. 2 hospital in the nation for geriatrics and cardiology and heart surgery. Our doctors, part of , incorporate principles of geriatric medicine into our routine cardiology practice, including a comprehensive geriatric assessment, evaluation of any drug interactions, and consideration of an individual’s physical capabilities. Our goals are to provide high-quality outpatient and inpatient cardiac care, and to pursue innovative clinical studies that can help us improve the heart health of older adults. We also collaborate with the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine to better understand the best way to treat cardiovascular disease in older adults. Find a cardiovascular disease expert who specializes in geriatric medicine. Our women’s health experts are located throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Women’s Sports Health Obstetrics & Gynecology Patient Stories Women deserve healthcare tailored to their unique needs. At NYU Langone, our experts in women’s health are dedicated to helping you stay well and feel your best at every stage of life. We work as a team to deliver a healthcare experience that is personalized to you and your goals. We provide comprehensive care aimed at helping you achieve and maintain peak wellness. Our team includes primary care providers and obstetrician–gynecologists who work in partnership with specialists in cardiology, , endocrinology, gastroenterology, to meet all your healthcare needs. Our gynecologic care is available to women of all ages, starting in adolescence through menopause and beyond. We provide the most advanced treatments for hormonal disorders and conditions specific to women, including , and vulvar conditions. We are also leaders in obstetric care . We strive to make every safe, supported, and special. Nearly 15,000 babies are born at NYU Langone each year, and we provide compassionate care for our pregnant patients, including those experiencing high-risk pregnancies. We also provide the most advanced treatments for people experiencing infertility , and have helped tens of thousands of people start and grow their families. Our Centers and Programs We offer the latest fibroid tumor treatments with the goal of reducing symptoms and preventing recurrence. We help reduce symptoms and improve overall health and wellbeing during the menopause transition. Learn More About the Center for Midlife Health and Menopause We help our patients manage the symptoms of endometriosis. We offer primary care and access to specialists, all focused on the specific medical needs of women. Learn More About the Center for Women’s Health Our specialists care for women experiencing high-risk pregnancies. Learn More About Maternal-Fetal Medicine Services Whether you want to start a family now or preserve your fertility for the future, our experts can help. Learn More About NYU Langone Fertility Center Our doctors provide routine gynecologic screenings and pregnancy care. Learn More About Obstetrics and Gynecology Associates NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Center East 53rd Street 159 East 53rd Street, New York, NY, 10022 646-987-3853 Breast Cancer Specialist Joins Perlmutter Cancer Center Clinical Trial Leads to Lifesaving Breast Cancer Treatment Combining Breast Cancer Treatment with Aesthetics A Message for Black Women: Know Your Risk of Breast Cancer NYU Langone Orthopedics Locations World-class care from is within reach, with locations throughout New York City, on Long Island, and in Westchester County, New Jersey, and Florida. New York City Locations Joan H. and Preston Robert Tisch Center at Essex Crossing NYU Orthopedic Associates—Midtown East NYU Langone Orthopedic Behavioral Health Associates Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Orthopedic Center Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center—Cobble Hill NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates—Flushing Long Island Locations Concussion Center at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care East Meadow NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Bethpage NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Lake Success—1999 Marcus Avenue NYU Langone Ambulatory Surgery Center—Garden City NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates NYU Langone Long Island Podiatry Associates—North Babylon NYU Langone Medical Associates—East Patchogue NYU Langone Medical Associates—Patchogue, 100 Hospital Road, Suite 115 NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Hauppauge Westchester County Locations NYU Langone Medical Associates—Harrison NYU Langone Medical Associates—Tarrytown New Jersey Locations Florida Locations Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are experts in interventional endocrinology—using minimally invasive treatments to manage a variety of thyroid conditions. We create a personalized treatment plan to ensure that you have the best possible outcome. While medications are useful for many thyroid conditions, we also offer advanced interventional thyroid procedures to manage thyroid nodules and cancers . These nonsurgical approaches, which leave little or no scarring, include radiofrequency ablation, nanosecond pulsed field ablation (nsPFA), thyroid artery embolization, and alcohol ablation. We also use the latest approaches to perform remote access surgeries, which are scar-reducing or scarless procedures Leaders in Interventional Endocrinology Treatment Our team of doctors is at the forefront of developing and using interventional endocrinology treatments. These nonsurgical procedures can treat thyroid conditions that were previously only managed with surgery or radioactive iodine ablation, which damage healthy thyroid tissue and increase the risk of . Patients who develop hypothyroidism require a daily dose of thyroid hormone . We use safe and effective interventional procedures because they help preserve healthy thyroid tissue and protect and restore thyroid function. Pioneers in Radiofrequency Ablation for Thyroid Nodules Our doctors were the first in New York City to offer thyroid radiofrequency ablation, or RFA , a technology that delivers heat to destroy large, noncancerous thyroid nodules that press on surrounding structures or cause undesirable bulging in the neck. We also use RFA to destroy nodules that cause hyperthyroidism Our team of experts may recommend RFA to treat some thyroid cancers or thyroid cancer that has come back in nearby lymph nodes. Trailblazers in Nanosecond Pulsed Field Ablation We are among the first doctors in New York area to offer nanosecond pulsed field ablation for the treatment of toxic thyroid nodules that cause hyperthyroidism. This highly precise treatment delivers short electrical pulses that break down unwanted thyroid tissue and preserves surrounding healthy structures. Experts in Thyroid Artery Embolization Thyroid artery embolization interrupts blood flow and shrinks an extremely enlarged thyroid, also known as a goiter. A goiter can sometimes grow below the collarbone, protrude into the chest, or cause the neck to swell. We were among the first and are still one of only a handful of medical centers in the United States to offer this procedure. Specialists in Ethanol Ablation We may offer ethanol (alcohol) ablation to treat fluid-filled thyroid nodules, also known as cysts. This procedure may also be used to destroy lymph nodes containing cancer cells that have spread from the thyroid. Scar-Reducing or Scarless Thyroid Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are leaders in advanced, remote access surgery to manage benign or cancerous thyroid nodules or to remove the thyroid gland to manage various thyroid conditions, without a visible scar on the front of the neck. With remote access endocrine surgery, our experts avoid making incisions on the front of the neck, and instead make tiny incisions under the chin, inside and behind the lower lip, or behind the ear to reduce or eliminate scarring. During surgery, we also use recurrent laryngeal nerve monitoring to minimize the risk of damage to the nerve that helps the voice box to function. We may also use parathyroid autofluorescence, a technology that minimizes the risk of damaging the parathyroid glands, which are located near the thyroid. Specialists in Retroauricular Thyroid Surgery Our doctors perform robotic-assisted retroauricular thyroid surgery to remove part or all of the thyroid. We make an incision behind the ear to minimize visible scarring and use a surgical robot to help perform the procedure. The robotic-assisted approach results in excellent visualization and gives us the ability to perform the surgery with a hidden incision. Innovators in Scarless Thyroid Surgery As an early leader in performing the transoral endoscopic technique, in which the thyroid is accessed through incisions made in the mouth, our surgeons were the first to develop a new type of “scarless” procedure known as the transoral and submental technique (TOaST) to remove the thyroid. For this procedure, we make a tiny incision hidden in the natural fold under the chin and behind the lower lip area in the mouth to remove thyroid tissue, a method that minimizes visible scarring. The scar in the mouth is not visible, and the incision on the chin is nearly invisible. Expert Diagnosis of Thyroid Conditions NYU Langone Thyroid Program doctors specialize in diagnosing a full array of thyroid conditions . Diagnosing thyroid disease may sometimes be delayed because symptoms can be vague. They range from weight gain to weight loss and from fatigue to sleeplessness. Others still—especially people with thyroid nodules or cancers —have no symptoms at all. Despite these challenges, our specialists provide an accurate and timely diagnosis of thyroid conditions so that your treatment can start as soon as possible. Thyroid Imaging Neck ultrasound, or the use of sound waves to create images of the neck, is the most useful tool for evaluating and diagnosing thyroid nodules and most thyroid cancers . Our doctors are experts in performing and reading this crucial type of scan. Thyroid cancer may require sophisticated tests such as lymph node mapping to help us determine which lymph nodes, if any, cancer cells may have spread to. Our team also may also use radionuclide scans, such as a PET scan or radioactive iodine scan, to diagnose thyroid disease and cancer. These tests use a small amount of radioactive material to detect abnormal activity in the thyroid gland or to determine whether the cancer has spread to other areas of the body. These, along with other advanced nuclear imaging tests, are used to determine the best treatment course for you. Advanced Molecular Testing If imaging does not clearly show that a nodule is benign, patients may benefit from a fine-needle aspiration , in which thyroid cells are removed with a tiny needle attached to a syringe. Our pathologists examine the cells under a microscope to determine whether any are cancerous. Advanced molecular tests that examine genetic material in thyroid nodules cells may be required to determine whether the nodule is more likely to be cancerous or benign. Based on these results, our experts may recommend watchful waiting, a minimally invasive procedure, or thyroid surgery. In rare cases of advanced or metastatic thyroid cancer, we collaborate closely with experts at NYU Langone’s , where you can access and advanced targeted therapies. Thyroid Conditions We Treat Specialists at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program treat all types of thyroid nodules and thyroid cancers Thyroid Nodules We treat a full range of benign (noncancerous) thyroid nodules, including: benign nodules that press on surrounding structures, causing symptoms, or are cosmetically unappealing fluid-filled nodules, also known as cysts goiter of all types, including toxic nodular goiter, which may cause hyperthyroidism, and substernal thyroid goiter, which presses into the chest thyroglossal masses and other ectopic thyroid tissue toxic autonomous nodule Thyroid Cancers These are some of the many kinds of thyroid cancers we manage: papillary carcinoma unusual papillary thyroid cancers, including variants such as tall cell, insular, hobnail follicular carcinoma medullary thyroid carcinoma oncocytic (Hürthle cell) cancer cribiform morular thyroid cancer lymphoma that appears in the thyroid poorly differentiated and anaplastic carcinoma, two of the most aggressive forms of thyroid cancer Types of Hyperthyroidism We create treatment plans for all types of hyperthyroidism, including the following: Graves’ disease thyroiditis, which is transient hyperthyroidism due to sudden inflammation or disruption of the thyroid amiodarone-induced hyperthyroidism pregnancy-related hyperthyroidism toxic autonomous thyroid nodules thyroid-stimulating hormone secreting pituitary