that goal. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for diabetes and endocrinology. Learn more about our approach to care for adults with type 1 diabetes , including information on physicians who treat these conditions. Preventing and Managing Complications Our goal is twofold: to prevent diabetes complications from occurring, and expertly treat those complications if they occur. Since uncontrolled cholesterol dramatically increase the risk of advanced diabetes complications, we focus on controlling these factors along with lowering blood glucose levels. Effective treatment prevents complications and reduces your risk of heart attack, , kidney and , vision loss, and amputation. Leaders in Diabetes Research As a patient at the Center for Diabetes and Metabolic Health, you have access to of medications and technologies that often are not widely available to the general public. Experts in our Diabetes Research Program focus on the link between diabetes and complications triggered by high blood glucose, , and cholesterol disorders. Our endocrinologists and cardiologists specialize in helping patients manage diabetes and reduce their risk of developing complications of the disease. Sandra T. Foo Lauren H. Golden Diabetes Specialist Alina Gouller Akankasha Goyal Stephen B. Richardson Susan Zweig Loren Wissner Greene Sanjiv V. Kinkhabwala Olga Leonardi Stuart Weiss Explore medical and surgical weight loss strategies. We help people with diabetes reduce their risk of heart disease. Pediatric Diabetes Center We give children and families the support and care they need to manage diabetes. We specialize in the treatment diabetic complications such as foot ulcers, loss of sensation, nerve pain, poor healing, and infection. COVID-19 Brings Telemedicine to the Fore in Diabetes Care Endocrinology Joins the COVID Army on the Front Lines New Approach Enhances Patient Success in Managing Diabetes Expert to Lead Center for Diabetes & Metabolic Health Changing Paradigms for Thyroid Cancer Patient Relations At NYU Langone, our Patient Relations staff can help answer your questions about hospital policies and your rights as a patient. We can also address your safety concerns or grievances and advocate on your behalf to ensure that those matters are addressed by the appropriate department. In addition, several members of our staff are notaries public and can assist you with executing official documents and documents, including a healthcare proxy or living will. , our Patient Relations staff is available 7 days a week from 9:00AM to 5:00PM to help people being treated on an inpatient or outpatient basis. You can reach us by calling 212-263-6906 . From inside the hospital, dial 3-6906 or page the hospital operator. Our offices are located on the first floor of Tisch Hospital in room SK 109H, which is along the blue pathway. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling . After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact the nursing supervisor at 212-598-6668 . The Patient Relations office at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital is on floor C3. Patients and families are visited in their hospital room when they request assistance. 718-630-7314 . From inside the hospital, dial 7314 or page the hospital operator. After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact the nursing supervisor at 718-630-7550 . Our offices are located in LB 2012, which is in the hospital lobby across from the security desk. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling 516-663-2058 . From inside the hospital, dial 663-2058 or page the hospital operator. After 5:00PM, or on weekends and holidays, please contact our nursing administrators at 516-663-2361 . Our offices are located in the main hospital lobby. , our Patient Relations staff is available Monday through Friday from 8:30AM to 5:00PM. You can reach us by calling 347-377-3544 . Our office is located in Brooklyn at 5800 Third Avenue on the second floor. Unresolved Concerns If your issue remains unresolved after contacting Patient Relations, you may contact The Joint Commission by calling 800-994-6610 or visiting The Joint Commission website You may also contact the New York State Department of Health at 800-804-5447 , via email at hospinfo@health.state.ny.us , or visit the New York State Department of Health website HIPAA Privacy Concerns Patients or family members who are concerned that their Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) privacy rights may have been violated should immediately contact our HIPAA Helpline Patient Rights These documents can help you learn more about your rights as a patient at NYU Langone. The NYU Langone Patients’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: NYU Langone Parent’s Bill of Rights The NYU Langone Parent’s Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: New York State Patients’ Bill of Rights The New York State Patients’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: Yiddish New York State Breastfeeding Mothers’ Bill of Rights The New York State Breastfeeding Mothers’ Bill of Rights is available in the following languages: Haitian Creole Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State The guide, “Your Rights as a Hospital Patient in New York State” is available in the following languages: Deciding About Healthcare: A Guide for Patients and Families The New York State Department of Health’s “Deciding About Healthcare: A Guide for Patients and Families” is available in We have multiple locations across New York City and in Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey, and Florida. View All Locations (39) 34,000+ Surgeries Each Year As one of the highest volume centers in the U.S., we’re in a unique position to improve patient outcomes. Safer Pain Management Our orthopedic surgeons are leading efforts to help manage your pain safely and effectively with fewer opioids. NYU Langone has one of the largest orthopedic surgery programs in the country. Our team cares for tens of thousands of people each year, from infants to seniors, performing procedures for the simplest to the most complex conditions involving joints, muscles, and bones. Our physicians understand the patient’s journey, having lived it themselves. Dr. Campbell, a former athlete, advocates for a holistic approach to women’s health and ensuring personalized care. Dr. Grossman, once a luminary on the baseball field, now dedicates his expertise to creating youth programs aimed at preventing sports-related injuries before they occur. Coming from a profound understanding that back pain can severely disrupt lives, Dr. Fischer uses this as a catalyst for pioneering advancements in minimally invasive spine surgery. Dr. Hacquebord, a trailblazer in the realm of advanced prosthetics and precise treatments for severe hand and wrist injuries, draws inspiration from his own athletic journey. Fueled by his personal journey, Dr. Hepinstall specializes in minimally invasive hip and knee surgeries that push the boundaries of orthopedic care. A Brooklynite, Dr. Jegede is humbled to provide the most advanced spine treatments where he grew up. His practice is dedicated to helping patients restore mobility faster. Drawing from her own experiences as both an athlete and a parent, Dr. Karamitopoulos works to provide comprehensive care for children with all orthopedic and neuromuscular conditions. Dr. Walls’ expertise as a foot and ankle surgeon is rooted in his background as a professional Irish dancer, speaking the language of dance with his patients. Dr. Gonzalez-Lomas leverages his background as a hockey player to spearhead advancements in sports medicine therapies for faster recovery to get back to your life quicker. Our world-renowned orthopedic expertise is built on first-hand experience. Our surgeons’ exceptional care is informed by their experience as athletes and proud New Yorkers. They harness their experience as marathon runners, dancers, and gym goers to pioneer groundbreaking techniques and build deep connections with their patients. Our team of surgeons specializes in all areas of orthopedic care, including adult reconstructive surgery, sports medicine, spine surgery, shoulder and elbow surgery, foot and ankle surgery, hand surgery, trauma and fracture surgery, musculoskeletal oncology, and pediatric orthopedic surgery. Our orthopedic surgeons are trained to provide the most advanced care for people with complex injuries. We emphasize compassion and comfort for every patient we treat and customize our treatments to meet your unique needs. Our services are available at different sites throughout the New York City area, Long Island, the surrounding suburbs, and Florida, making our care at as easy to access as possible. Our experts also offer orthopedic second opinions through our Orthopedic Second Opinion service . Our orthopedic surgeons review your medical records and provide a personalized second opinion report to you and your treating physician. A second opinion can confirm your diagnosis and treatment plan, or provide different recommendations that you can review and discuss with your doctor. For Specific Groups Occupational & Industrial Orthopedic Center For Specific Injuries Hip Center Joint Replacement Center Surgical Locations Find out about our research efforts and medical training in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. Our Locations (39) NYU Langone Ambulatory Care—23rd Street 324 East 23rd Street, New York, NY, 10010 212-598-6321 212-598-6186 NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery Associates—Upper East Side 862 Park Avenue, New York, NY, 10075 212-427-5553 212-879-2194 NYU Langone Podiatry Associates—Upper West Side 101 West 79th Street, New York, NY, 10024 212-874-3578 646-754-7900 646-754-7950 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Brooklyn Heights 186 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11201 929-455-2399 929-455-2398 NYU Langone Brooklyn Medical Associates—Kent Street 74 Kent Street, Lower Level, Brooklyn, NY, 11222 929-455-3190 929-455-9767 NYU Langone Brooklyn Orthopedics—Bay 26th Street 153 Bay 26th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11214 718-648-5622 NYU Langone Brooklyn Podiatry Associates—77th Street 441 77th Street, Brooklyn, NY, 11209 718-745-3800 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Greenpoint 934 Manhattan Avenue, Brooklyn, NY, 11222 718-389-8585 929-455-9768 NYU Langone Podiatry Associates—Brooklyn 1309 Avenue P, Lower Level, Brooklyn, NY, 11229 718-615-4444 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Laurelton 228-02 Merrick Boulevard, Laurelton, NY, 11413 646-501-4950 Rusk Rehabilitation at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care Rego Park NYU Langone Orthopedic Associates—Staten Island 1534 Victory Blvd., Staten Island, NY, 10314 718-987-3338 929-455-9695 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, East Patchogue 285 Sills Road, Building 18, East Patchogue, NY, 11772 631-475-1224 631-475-1588 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, Riverhead 715 Roanoke Avenue, Building A, Suite 4, Riverhead, NY, 11901 NYU Langone Advanced Orthopedic Associates—Long Island, Stony Brook 2500 Nesconset Highway, Building 20-A, Stony Brook, NY, 11790 NYU Langone Ambulatory Care East Meadow 1530 Front Street, East Meadow, NY, 11554 NYU Langone Family Medicine Associates—North Babylon 986 Sunrise Highway, North Babylon, NY, 11703 631-587-6060 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Carle Place 536 Mineola Avenue, Carle Place, NY, 11514 516-333-5054 NYU Langone Medical Associates—Riverhead 889 East Main Street, Suite 308, Riverhead, NY, 11901 631-386-3500 1300 Franklin Avenue, Suite UL3A, Garden City, NY, 11530 516-747-8900 NYU Langone Orthopedics—Westchester NYU Langone Orthopedic Surgery—Hackensack 5 Summit Avenue, Suite 200, Hackensack, NJ, 07601 212-598-2781 Julia Koch Family Ambulatory Care Center—West Palm Beach 101 North Clematis Street, Suite 110, West Palm Beach, FL, 33401 561-365-3000 Doctors can refer a patient to an NYU Langone orthopedic surgeon by calling 888-769-8633 You can receive urgent orthopedic care at NYU Langone’s Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center from 8:00AM to 10:30PM daily. Learn About Samuels Orthopedic Immediate Care Center Surgeon Saves Man’s Leg After Cancer Battle NYU Langone Orthopedics Film Featured in Tribeca Festival A Center That Restores Hope & Function for Amputees Spinal Fracture Patient Regains Full Range of Motion Preparing for Your Visit as an International Patient At NYU Langone, we strive to make traveling to New York City from abroad for medical care as simple as possible. Upon your arrival, we pair you with a member of our International Patient Services team who assists you throughout your time here. As you are planning your visit to NYU Langone, we offer suggestions for . If you are bringing your child to for medical care, we have suggestions for what to bring preparing for your child’s surgery preparing for your child’s hospital stay We also ask that you fill out the following forms: Authorization for Use and Disclosure of Protected Health Information International Patient Demographic Form To help you prepare for your stay and ensure your comfort once you are here, we provide the following support services. Accommodations Assistance If you are scheduled for inpatient care at one of our hospitals, NYU Langone can offer you a semi-private, private, or deluxe room. If you are seeking outpatient treatment or have people accompanying you who require their own accommodations, we can help. Our International Patient Services team works with to help you find comfortable housing in the New York City area that is respectful of your budget and personal preferences. Interpretation and Translation Services For patients and families who need or prefer to communicate about their healthcare in a language other than English, we provide professional medical interpreters free of charge. We arrange for interpreters who can help you and your family during all phases of your care. We provide face-to-face interpreters, as well as interpreters via telephone and video. For your convenience, we have translated important medical forms and patient health education materials into several languages. Please ask your international coordinator or healthcare provider if these materials are available in your preferred language. Support During Your Visit , including guided meditation, acupuncture, massage, and reflexology, which can be accessed while in the hospital or as an outpatient. Spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for adults spiritual, religious, and chaplaincy services for children are available. Our chaplains are trained to counsel people of all faiths and are available to meet with you or your family at any time of day. They offer prayer and emotional support, and can perform religious services such as baptism, communion, and anointing of the sick. Religious items and specialty foods, including kosher snacks and halal meals, are available upon request. For children, we provide to help the experience seem less overwhelming. Our child life specialists art and music therapists help ease feelings of anxiety and help your child cope with medical treatment. To learn more about our services for international patients, please call Ask a Health Information Specialist Form Our librarians can provide answers to questions such as "What is diabetes?" or "Where can I learn more about heart disease?" Questions specific to your personal health such as "Why am I feeling sick?" or "What medications do I need?" should be discussed with a healthcare provider. Confirm Email Question Submit Question NYU Langone’s palliative care and supportive care teams offer symptom relief and emotional support as you recover after a hospital stay or receive care for a chronic condition. Resources are available through the following programs based at our hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and on Long Island. For programs based at 212-263-6202 Supportive Care for People with Cancer For cancer-specific care, please contact the . They provide cancer pain management and relief of common symptoms, including shortness of breath, nausea, fatigue, loss of appetite, weight loss, , and stress related to cancer and its treatments. Our team provides personalized, goal-oriented care in conjunction with your oncologist and assists with cancer treatment decisions as appropriate. Please ask your treating oncologist for a referral or call 212-731-5857 Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care in Manhattan We also provide the following outpatient programs, which are based in Manhattan. Palliative Care for People with Kidney Disease Kidney CARES (Comprehensive Advanced Renal Disease and End Stage Kidney Disease Support) Program provides palliative care for people living with . We address symptoms common to patients with kidney disease, such as pain, itching, insomnia, anxiety, and . We assist with planning for the future, dialysis decision-making, conservative management of kidney disease, and care coordination. Dr. Jennifer S. Scherer , who has expertise in palliative care and nephrology. For more information about Kidney CARES, please call 212-263-0705 jennifer.scherer@nyulangone.org Palliative Care for People with Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders , our supportive care physician, Dr. Yijie Xu , addresses common symptoms of , including depression, anxiety, and difficulty swallowing. She also works closely with your neurologist to clarify treatment goals and assist with planning for the future. Please speak with your neurologist at the Fresco Institute for a referral. Supportive Care for People with Heart, Lung, Liver, and Neurologic Diseases Our providers focus on improving quality of life for people with heart, lung, liver, and non-Parkinson’s neurological diseases, including , by treating symptoms such as shortness of breath, pain, fatigue, anxiety, and depression. We provide guidance in advance care planning and complex decision-making, and work with people being evaluated for organ transplant at the . For more information about our services, please contact Dr. Joseph Lowy Supportive Care for People with Dementia Supportive care for people with is available through the Pearl I. Barlow Center for Memory Evaluation and Treatment Outpatient Supportive and Palliative Care on Long Island , we provide specialized outpatient programs for people with cancer or advanced disease affecting the heart, kidneys, and lungs. Our team—which includes board-certified physicians, nurse practitioners, social workers, and registered nurses—has advanced training in palliative medicine and collaborates with your primary physician and other specialists to understand your goals for care and treatment. Supportive Care for People with Heart Disease Our team provides care for people with heart conditions, including congestive heart failure . We help manage shortness of breath, pain, anxiety, fatigue, and other symptoms. Our team also provides support for you and your family, with care plans and community resources to optimize quality of life, and treatment priorities, including finding the right cardiac device Supportive Care for People with Kidney Disease We provide a personalized plan to help reduce the physical and emotional effects of advanced kidney disease, including depression, insomnia, itching, loss of appetite, nausea, numbness, shortness of breath, and tingling. Supportive kidney care may be helpful, whether or not dialysis is part of your treatment plan—our expert team can also assist with dialysis decision-making, care coordination, emotional support for you and your family, and advance care planning Supportive oncology care is designed for people receiving treatment for symptomatic cancers to maximize their quality of life. Our specialists provide relief from appetite loss, constipation, fatigue, insomnia, nausea, pain, shortness of breath, and weight loss. We collaborate with your oncologist to provide compassionate and goal-oriented care for you and your family at any stage of treatment. Supportive Care for People with Lung Disease We offer a tailored care plan for people with advanced lung disease, including or COPD, pulmonary fibrosis , pulmonary hypertension, and . Our team consults with your pulmonologist to help treat anxiety, fatigue, insomnia, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, weight loss, and other symptoms. We also provide social and emotional support for you and your family throughout your treatment. In addition to talking with you and your family, chaplains are also available to perform various religious services on site at NYU Langone. These include baptism, communion, and the anointing of the sick. Rabbis are available for certain prayer services. Chaplains also counsel, support, and pray with families and patients at the time of death. Sacred Texts and Religious Items Sacred texts are available to all patients at NYU Langone. The Christian Bible, Jewish siddur, and Muslim Koran can be borrowed. Other religious items available upon request include Buddhist mala prayer beads, Catholic rosaries, Jewish Sabbath candles, and Muslim sajajid (prayer rugs). To request these items, please talk with your nurse or fill out our . You can also phone in a request using the following numbers: , please call Patient Relations at Specialty Foods If you have religious dietary needs, such as kosher or halal, please inform your nurse. We also have Bikur Cholim rooms, where kosher meals and snacks are available. The Bikur Cholim room at Tisch Hospital is located on the first floor behind the Meditation Room . At NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the Bikur Cholim room on the fourth floor provides kosher snacks and Shabbos provisions. The Bikur Cholim room at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital is located on the 13th floor. At NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, Shabbos provisions are available in the Bikur Cholim Room on the first floor, and the offsite Sabbath House, located in Mineola, can accommodate family members in special circumstances. For reservations at the Sabbath House, please call Jean Zebroski at 516-663-4875 Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital 212-263-5567 212-263-8525 Electroconvulsive Therapy Program Inpatient psychiatric care is available at NYU Langone’s to people who need immediate and intensive mental healthcare. All admissions to our inpatient psychiatric unit are voluntary, meaning patients sign themselves in. During your stay, you receive a thorough consultation from team of medical experts who specialize in psychiatric care. We identify your symptoms and develop an accurate diagnosis. Your personalized treatment plan can include medication, group therapy, and art, music, and recreation therapy . We also offer nutrition counseling, yoga, horticultural therapy, and spiritual and religious support . Neuropsychological testing and neuropsychiatric consultations are provided if your care team believes they are necessary. Our Psychiatric Expertise Every patient is assigned a personal treatment team that includes a psychiatrist, psychiatric nurse, social worker, art therapist, and recreation therapist. Our team has special expertise in treating people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders, such as , borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder schizophrenia Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is prescribed for people with severe mood disorders who may benefit from the treatment. Our nursing staff cares for people experiencing both medical and behavioral healthcare issues. This allows patients who are being treated at Tisch Hospital for another condition to continue receiving their needed medical care while they are in the inpatient psychiatric unit. The majority of our patients are admitted to inpatient psychiatric services after being treated in NYU Langone’s Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emergency Services on First Avenue in Manhattan. Admission to the Inpatient Psychiatric Unit Most people are admitted to our inpatient psychiatric unit after being treated in the . In some instances, we accept patients from outside hospitals. Patients must be age 18 or older. The average length of stay is seven to eight days. We accept insurance and assure confidentiality and privacy. For more information, please call If you or a loved one are experiencing a psychiatric emergency, please call 911 or visit the emergency care location closest to you. Our Doctors Our experts specialize in psychiatric care and treat people who have mood, personality, and psychotic disorders. Bem L. Atim Free Wi-Fi is available to patients and visitors. When permitted, patients are allowed to use cell phones and computers during their stay, but use of photography is prohibited. Palliative Care & Supportive Care for Adults Care Team The palliative care and supportive care team at NYU Langone includes doctors, nurse practitioners, chaplains, and social workers who are focused on providing the highest level of care to people who are experiencing a serious or life-limiting illness. Listed below are care team members for the following locations: Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital The palliative care and supportive care team at includes the following physicians: JL Joseph Lowy, MD Director of Palliative Care View Full Profile NR Nina J. Ricci, DO Associate Director of Palliative Care AG Annette A. Georgia, MD Palliative Care Physician YG Yolanda Guzman, MD OS Olivia Seecof, MD Palliative Care and Supportive Oncology Care Physician Megan E. Rau, MD, MPH Palliative Care and Geriatrics Physician JS Jennifer S. Scherer, MD Palliative Care and Nephrology Physician Renata Shabin, MSN, RN, AGPCNP-BC, ACHPN Nurse Practitioner Ms. Shabin is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training and board certification in palliative care. She completed both her undergraduate and graduate education at NYU. In high school, she worked as an emergency medical technician and ambulance driver, which sparked her interest in nursing and desire to develop relationships with her patients. As a nurse, she cares for people with complex conditions and those in the emergency department. She serves as a clinical instructor for graduate nursing students at NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Erin Barnes, MSN, RN, FNP-C, ACHPN Ms. Barnes, a nurse practitioner, joined the palliative care team in 2019 after working with patients who have genetic and acquired autonomic nervous system disorders. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked as a critical care nurse for seven years. She received her doctor of nursing practice degree from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. AS Amy Sevick, MS, RN, FNP-BC, CHPN Ms. Sevick is a board-certified family primary care nurse practitioner with specialty training in palliative care. Before becoming a nurse practitioner, she worked for many years as a registered nurse in inpatient psychiatry, critical care, and hospice. Christopher Oates Social Work Manager Mr. Oates is a licensed clinical social worker and a leadership fellow at the Zelda Foster Studies Program in Palliative and End-of-Life Care at NYU Silver School of Social Work. He received his master’s degree in social work from Columbia University and master of public administration degree from Baruch College. He has served on the executive boards of the New York City Chapter of the Society for Social Work Leadership in Healthcare, the Helen Rehr Center for Social Work Practice, and the East Side Council of the Aging. BR Bena Reiter, LCSW Ms. Reiter holds a master’s degree from the Wurzweiler School of Social Work at Yeshiva University. She joined NYU Langone in 2010 and has been a licensed clinical social worker with the Tisch Hospital, Kimmel Pavilion, and NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital teams since 2014. Elizabeth Kitamura, BCC Staff Chaplain Chaplain Kitamura is a board-certified chaplain with the National Association of Catholic Chaplains. She received her master’s degree in theology from Catholic Theological Union in Chicago and is a master’s degree candidate at NYU School of Global Public Health. Before joining NYU Langone, she completed her clinical training at Advocate Christ Medical Center in Oak Lawn, Illinois, and Rush University Medical Center in Chicago, and was also a research fellow at Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center. The following physicians provide supportive care to patients at : AK Arum Kim, MD Director of the Supportive Oncology Program Akash Shah, MD Palliative and Supportive Oncology Care Physician NB Nancy E. Bael, MD LP Lauren A. Parker, MD Medical Director of Geriatrics and Palliative Care Elena A. Kuzin-Palmeri, MSN, ANP, GNP-BC, AOCN, ACHPN Palliative Care Nurse Ms. Kuzin-Palmeri is a board-certified gerontology, advanced oncology, and advanced hospice and palliative care nurse with more than 30 years of experience. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn in 2013, she worked in a variety of settings, including palliative care and home-based care at the Brooklyn VA Medical Center, radiation oncology care at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, pain medicine and palliative care at NYC Health + Hospitals/Metropolitan, and several home-based care programs for homebound older adults. KR Kate Rex, LCSW Ms. Rex holds a master’s degree in social work from Lehman College and completed the James J. Peters VA Medical Center Geriatric Research Fellowship in palliative care and social work. Ms. Rex has more than 13 years of hospital social work experience in Brooklyn and has been with NYU Langone since 2016. RT Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC Chaplain Rabbi Kara L. Tav, BCC, leads the spiritual care department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and is staff chaplain for the palliative care team and preceptor for student chaplains. She is a board-certified chaplain with Neshama: Association of Jewish Chaplains and an ordained Conservative rabbi. She received her master’s degree in divinity from Jewish Theological Seminary and a master’s degree in education from Teachers College, Columbia University. Before joining NYU Langone, Rabbi Tav worked at NYC Health + Hospitals/Elmhurst as director of their first multifaith spiritual care department and palliative care staff chaplain, and she was a palliative care chaplain and end-of-life care specialist at the Manhattan, NY Vet Center. The Palliative Care and Supportive Care Program at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is led by the following physicians: Jeffrey T. Berger, MD AH Amanda J. Hafeez, MD PP Priya A. Pinto, MD DS Dustin E. Suanino, MD LA Latifat Adeyemi, MS, ANP-BC Adult Nurse Practitioner Ms. Adeyemi is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner. She completed subspecialty training in palliative care and received a master’s degree from NYU. Before joining the palliative care team, she worked for more than seven years as an oncology–hematology registered nurse. Kathleen DiGangi Condon, DNP, MA, ANP-BC Dr. DiGangi Condon is a board-certified adult nurse practitioner with a doctorate of nursing practice from Stony Brook University. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Columbia University School of Nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from the College of the Holy Cross and a master’s degree from the University of Notre Dame. CK Catherine A. Kobza, MS, AGACNP-BC, CCRN Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Kobza is a board-certified adult gerontology acute care nurse practitioner. She earned her bachelor’s and master’s degrees and postgraduate certificate in adult oncology from the University of Pennsylvania. Ms. Kobza is certified in critical care nursing and holds a bachelor’s degree from Bucknell University, and completed an advanced practice provider fellowship in critical care medicine at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided care and support for patients and families with various acute and chronic illnesses as a medical–surgical telemetry and cardiothoracic intensive care unit registered nurse. KS Kathryn Stein, MS, AGPCNP-BC Primary Care Nurse Practitioner Ms. Stein is a board-certified adult gerontology primary care nurse practitioner. She received her master’s degree and subspecialty training in palliative care from NYU Rory Meyers School of Nursing. Ms. Stein also holds bachelor’s degrees from Johns Hopkins University and NYU. Prior to joining NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, she provided support and care for patients and their families in a variety of settings, including inpatient hematology–oncology, intensive care, and a multiple sclerosis outpatient practice. DR Dana Ribeiro Miller, M. Div., LCSW, APHSW-C Social Worker Ms. Ribeiro Miller is a licensed clinical social worker. She holds a master’s degree in social work from Columbia University School of Social Work, where she was a recipient of the Dr. Maurice V. Russell Fellowship for Medical Social Work. She also received a master’s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary, and a bachelor’s of science degree from Rutgers University. Ms. Ribeiro Miller completed her subspecialty palliative care training at Mount Sinai Beth Israel, and is a clinical instructor of medicine and frequent lecturer at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. She has published in the bioethics and social work literature and lectures regionally and nationally for organizations such as the National Hospice and Palliative Care Organization and the Social Work Hospice and Palliative Care Network. She is also a member of the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Medical Ethics Workgroup and the Spiritual Care Services Advisory Committee. Nicole Rossi, LCSW, APHSW-C Ms. Rossi holds a master’s degree from Fordham University School of Social Work and a bachelor’s degree from the University of Rhode Island. She has experience in hospice and oncology social work in a variety of settings, including hospitals, home care, outpatient clinics, and long-term care facilities. Ms. Rossi completed a postgraduate certificate program in palliative and end-of-life care through Smith College School for Social Work. Spaces for prayer, meditation, or contemplation are available at several NYU Langone locations. All spaces are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and are available to patients and guests. Contemplative Space at Tisch Hospital The Meditation Room at NYU Langone’s , located on the blue pathway beyond the Tisch elevators, offers a space for prayer and quiet reflection. Meditation Mondays A free meditation group meets on Mondays from 12:00PM to 12:30PM. Meditation Mondays are open to all, regardless of religious background or meditation experience. Chaplains and integrative health specialists work collaboratively to provide this service. Instruction is given, followed by silent or guided practice. For more information, please contact us at Contemplative Spaces at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn The chapel at is open to people of all faiths who seek a quiet place for prayer and reflection. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn also has prayer rooms for people of Muslim and Jewish faith. Contemplative Space at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island The Serenity Chapel at is located across from the gift shop and is available to people of all faiths. It is open daily from 5:30AM until 10:00PM for personal prayer, meditation, and observing silence. The spiritual care team leads weekly services in the Serenity Chapel, and we also offer bereavement support groups and educational lectures At NYU Langone, our commitment to teaching future healthcare professionals extends to spiritual care and our chaplain internship programs. Clinical pastoral education (CPE) brings theological students and seminarian ministers of all faiths together in a multicultural environment. NYU Langone’s CPE programs are accredited by the Association for Clinical Pastoral Education (ACPE) and we offer full- and part-time options. After a thorough orientation, interns are assigned to clinical units to provide spiritual care to patients, families, and staff. Interns are supervised by educators and supported by preceptors and mentors. Chaplain interns learn how to listen to and engage with patients and their loved ones, build rapport, and respond to verbal and