facilities ranged from 40 to 51 decibels (dB). After restrictions were implemented, those levels rose to 44 to 57 dB. ADAPTED FROM: JAMDA . 2021 May;22:P974-976. Controlling the spread of COVID-19 in nursing homes was greatly complicated by asymptomatic carriers, atypical symptoms, and the frequency of close contact between staff and residents. In March 2020, the CDC implemented multiple restrictions in a bid to limit the spread of COVID-19 in those care settings, including restricting all visitors and nonessential personnel and canceling communal dining and group activities. As part of a larger research effort in New York City nursing homes to improve residents’ sleep/wake patterns , researchers at NYU Langone Health and their collaborators compared changes in nighttime noise before and after implementation of the 2020 COVID-19-related restrictions. Previous research had linked higher noise levels to poor sleep and more behavioral disturbance among residents. The new study, published in Journal of the American Medical Directors Association and led by , director of the Division of Geriatrics and Palliative care, found that nighttime noise levels abruptly increased after the CDC-recommended restrictions. Data collected from noise-monitoring devices on six units in two nursing homes showed a significant increase in noise at all locations within one facility and about half of all locations within the second facility. Those changes persisted for months. Isolation from family and friends, the absence of normal recreational activities, and changes in care providers due to illness of regular staff may have contributed to altered sleep and more noise, says study coauthor and geriatric nursing specialist Abraham A. Brody, PhD . “Simply put, nursing homes were turned on their head. They were struggling to provide care and stay afloat with both residents and staff getting sick.” “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Dr. Brody says one lasting lesson is the importance of the 24-hour sleep cycle. “You can’t just attack this problem at one time of day. It takes a concerted holistic effort. Simple environmental modifications can have huge effects on outcomes, and our job is to help get that implemented across practice settings nationwide.” Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN Geriatrics, Palliative Care Abraham A. Brody, PhD, RN, FAAN, is a professor of medicine, the Mathy Mezey Professor of Geriatric Nursing and associate director of the Hartford Institute for Geriatric Nursing. He specializes in the intersection of geriatrics, palliative care, quality, and equity. Heart Surgery Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Case exemplifies the need for suspicion of IE in patients with underlying valvular defects. MINOCA: Precise Diagnosis Is Crucial for Women with Heart Attack An expert discusses untangling those heart attacks that disproportionately affect female patients. VIDEO: Cardiologist Dr. Harmony R. Reynolds discusses how MINOCA, a form of heart attack more common in women than men, is different from a typical heart attack, and shares new research about how imaging tests can help doctors correctly diagnose it. , conducts ongoing research into the root causes of heart attacks unassociated with obstructive coronary artery disease. With support from the American Heart Association (AHA), Dr. Reynolds is leading one of the first-ever long-term studies to utilize advanced imaging to identify the conditions behind heart attacks in predominantly female patients. Here, she provides insights on the ways in which comprehensive evaluation and diagnosis can support more targeted treatment and care of these patients. Much of your research centers on cardiac concerns of women. Can you tell us the difference between the types of ischemic heart disease that tend to impact female patients more than males? Dr. Reynolds: There are two related but distinct disorders: myocardial infarction with non-obstructive coronary arteries (MINOCA), and ischemia with no obstructive coronary arteries (INOCA). MINOCA is now recognized as true heart attack, but without the typical clinical picture of severe coronary narrowing. Patients generally may have plaque but their arteries are less than 50 percent obstructed. It’s a heterogenous diagnosis with several pathophysiological mechanisms. Like MINOCA patients with acute coronary syndrome, patients with stable INOCA have unobstructed arteries with true ischemia, frequently presenting as chest pain. The main mechanisms of INOCA appear to be microvascular disease and coronary artery spasm. Coronary artery spasm can also cause MINOCA. In both cases, patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out. For many patients, once we conduct the specific testing our center is equipped for, we find abnormal results that point to a root cause. “Patients are often evaluated for coronary artery disease, then sent on a diagnostic odyssey once obstructive coronary artery disease is ruled out.” How does pinpointing the specific diagnosis contribute to better cardiac outcomes for these patients? Advanded diagnostics often yield more subtle findings that can help us both prognosticate and better tailor treatment. And there’s reason to perform these targeted tests early as some findings, such as myocardial edema, are transient. The initial injury from an infarct event is much larger and more easily discoverable than the final scar, particularly in patients with MINOCA. The other benefit is psychological. Before a specific diagnosis, patients with INOCA may have been told they’re overreacting, that it’s “just stress,” but they know something’s wrong when they can’t walk two blocks without shortness of breath. When we give a name to patients’ diagnosis and recommend treatment, I often think it’s as helpful to their quality of life as prescription. The Path Toward Diagnosis What are those pecific tests, and how do they inform diagnosis and care? Timely cardiac MRI is really important in patients with MINOCA, because somewhere between 20 to 40 percent of patients may ultimately have a nonischemic diagnosis. But within ischemic injury, a significant cohort are found to be atherosclerotic. There’s a range of those findings, from large, dense infarct to myocardial regional edema, an early sign of injury with no late gadolinium enhancement. For those patients with ischemic MINOCA, we tailor secondary measures to prevent another event. When there is atherosclerotic plaque rupture or erosion on coronary optical coherence tomography (OCT)—which uses light to image blood vessel walls—we take typical secondary prevention measures, just as in typical heart attack. Only imaging from inside the vessel wall provides enough detail to see that plaque has ruptured or has erosion. Only having some plaque present is not enough to cause an event. For up to two thirds of patients with MINOCA, OCT combined with MRI identifies a pattern suggestive of coronary artery spasm, which significantly impacts care. Observational studies indicate that calcium channel blockers can reduce mortality in this patient subset, and we typically prescribe long-acting nitrates as well. In INOCA, our interventional cardiologists have conducted studies examining the role of invasive testing, such as index of micro-circulatory resistance, which indicates resistance problems in the microvasculature, and measurement of coronary flow reserve. We perform spasm testing, available at only a few centers nationwide, to create individualized treatment plans for patients. For those who prefer noninvasive testing, we combine cardiac MRI with positron emission tomography (PET), for a highly valid diagnosis of microvascular disease. Gender, Genes, and Other Causes Is it well understood why women experience these nditions more frequently than men? One theory involves estrogen receptor signaling; whether hormone expression could trigger the cascade of cardiovascular changes that trigger MINOCA or INOCA. In our AHA-funded program studying myocardial infarction in women, we performed whole blood RNA sequencing on a group of women with MINOCA, identifying unique pathways that are differentially regulated in those patients as compared to heart attack patients with coronary disease and controls. The other question is, are women expressing their symptoms differently? To what degree do home and family care responsibilities perhaps provoke more chest pain with less coronary disease or ischemia? One of our natural history studies from the ISCHEMIA trial revealed that women with obstructive coronary disease had less extensive disease and more angina than men with obstructive disease. In our study of INOCA, we observed substantial variability in stress test findings and in symptoms over time. That is consistent with what we see in clinical practice, where symptoms ebb and flow. Is this related to differences in hormone programming, vascular function, or even neural control? There is still so much to learn about how ischemia relates back to symptoms in day-to-day life. Harmony R. Reynolds, MD, is an associate professor of medicine and director of the Sarah Ross Soter Center for Women’s Cardiovascular Research. She takes a special interest in less common heart disease syndromes that disproportionately affect women, particularly heart attack and chest pain with open arteries. Conditions We Treat Through Care on Demand providers at NYU Langone see adults who do not already have a primary care physician. We offer walk-in primary care without an appointment for nonurgent and nonemergency conditions. Conditions Our Care on Demand Providers Treat Our providers manage the following conditions: symptoms gastrointestinal issues pain—chronic or intermittent pink eye or viral illnesses such as the common cold, Conditions We Do Not Treat Please call 911 or go to the nearest location for medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, -related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in harm to yourself or others. 212-263-3991 At NYU Langone’s Nerve Center, we provide compassionate, comprehensive treatment for people who have disabilities resulting from cranial or peripheral nerve injuries or defects, whether you have been born with a congenital problem or have had an injury as a child or adult. Our team of experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery evaluates each person to design a treatment plan that meets your needs. In addition, we collaborate closely with NYU Langone specialists in neurology, neurosurgery, rehabilitation, and radiology to deliver comprehensive care. We treat a broad range of conditions affecting the nerves due to cranial or peripheral injury or defect. These include: facial nerve palsy or paralysis, which are facial nerve disorders affecting the muscles of the face brachial plexopathy, or injury to the brachial plexus, the network of nerves that sends signals from your spine to your shoulder, arm, and hands compression neuropathy, which occurs when nerves become compressed (the most common form is post-traumatic peripheral nerve pathology, which involves damage to your peripheral nerves, often causing weakness, numbness, and pain, usually affecting the hands and feet Our experts in hand surgery, microsurgery, and micro-neurosurgery offer advanced, personalized, and compassionate care for each patient we see. Sheel Sharma Vishal D. Thanik 516-663-1220 Long Island Vein Center The NYU Langone Long Island Vein Center provides specialized care for patients with venous conditions, including , spider and reticular veins, lipodermatosclerosis, leg swelling, , May-Thurner syndrome, pelvic congestion, and . Our mission is to provide patients with comprehensive knowledge, care, and treatment options. All procedures are performed by board-certified vascular surgeons with a passion for treating venous disease. In addition, most procedures are performed on an outpatient basis and are minimally invasive: they are done without large incisions or the need for prolonged recovery. Patients are seen and evaluated at , and procedures are performed at our Vein Center at 200 Old Country Road, Suite 120, in Mineola. Treatments for Venous Conditions Our aim is to guide patients towards the best treatment option for their individual conditions. These are some of the methods we use to treat venous conditions: thermal ablation with endovenous laser therapy or radiofrequency ablation (EVLT or RFA) nonthermal ablation with Varithena or VenaSeal stab phlebectomy, or microphlebectomy, to remove varicose veins from the surface of the legs sclerotherapy for treating spider and reticular veins venography with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) for treatment of deep venous disease For conditions such as lymphedema or leg swelling, we evaluate, diagnose, and offer referrals for lymphedema pump therapy or lymphedema clinics for decongestive therapy. Our team of experts offers a variety of medical specialties, tests, and services. 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy) Brooklyn, NY 11220 929-502-0386 In March 2023, Medicaid stopped providing the continuous coverage available during COVID-19. Many Medicaid beneficiaries must reenroll to keep coverage. Beyond Bridges at has partnered with Public Health Solutions (PHS) to provide additional Medicaid reenrollment support to the community. In-Person Reenrollment Hours In-person reenrollment support is available on Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. Online Reenrollment Support Online resources are available to help eligible individuals and families reenroll in Medicaid. Resources to Assist with Online Reenrollment Public Health Solutions provides step-by-step assistance in understanding health coverage options, helping eligible individuals and families obtain free or low-cost health insurance. For more information, visit Public Health Solutions To request assistance, complete the Find Services Form . One of the Public Health Solutions coordinators will connect you to your requested resources. Direct Online Reenrollment If you’d like to enroll online, visit the New York State of Health Marketplace to get started. Phone Reenrollment Support Multilingual enrollers are available to assist by calling In-Person Reenrollment Support English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM at the following location: (in the lobby, beside the pharmacy) Additional Reenrollment Support The Financial Planning Office at the can also help you renew your Medicaid eligibility. Call 718-630-8303 FHCMedicaidOffice@NYULangone.org for assistance. Patients may also contact the online or by calling 855-355-5777 514 49th Street, Lobby (beside the Pharmacy), Brooklyn, NY, 11220 English- and Spanish-speaking enrollers are on-site Tuesdays from 9:00AM to 4:30PM. , our team of geneticists, rheumatologists, and hematologists collaborates to provide unmatched care to people with VEXAS syndrome. VEXAS—the name is an acronym for vacuoles, E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic—syndrome is a rare, serious condition that develops in adults and causes a broad range of progressive inflammatory and hematologic symptoms, including fever, fatigue, painful skin rashes, pain and swelling of the ears and nose, shortness of breath, and low blood cell counts. Because VEXAS syndrome is a newly recognized disorder and its symptoms overlap with many common rheumatologic and hematologic conditions, it is a diagnosis often overlooked. The only reliable way to establish a VEXAS syndrome diagnosis is by genetic testing of the UBA1 gene. The diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome can lead to improvements in medical management and more-effective treatments for patients. The specialists on our multidisciplinary team—led by David B. Beck, MD, PhD , of the Beck Lab and a member of the research team that first identified VEXAS syndrome—are recognized experts in their fields, including genetics, rheumatology, and hematology. We work with you and your doctor to provide a personalized treatment plan for your specific constellation of symptoms and needs. We see patients in Manhattan at 333 East 38th Street, on the fourth floor. But whether you live locally or outside of New York City, please feel free to contact our team with any questions about VEXAS syndrome. To make an appointment or learn more about VEXAS syndrome, contact us at BeckClinic@NYULangone.org . We welcome inquiries from patients, their loved ones, and healthcare providers. Prior to your appointment, please provide the following information, which is important for our assessment: all genetic testing results, especially any that include the UBA1 gene bone marrow biopsy results any recent rheumatology and hematology provider notes and blood work results Research and Clinical Studies In addition to our goals of improving our patients’ health, care, and quality of life, our team actively conducts research and clinical studies to better understand the condition. Understanding why VEXAS syndrome occurs, its long-term effects, the genetic and molecular mechanisms of the condition, and why it presents differently across patients will help us develop new, more-effective treatments. It is helpful for people with rare conditions like VEXAS syndrome to join clinical trials because finding an adequate number of patients for effective clinical studies—as we are doing at NYU Langone’s VEXAS Syndrome Care Program—can be challenging. Learn more about our current active trial, the Autoimmune and Autoinflammatory Genetics Study , at ClinicalTrials.gov. If you are interested in being involved in research and potential clinical studies, contact Dr. Beck and our team at VEXAS Syndrome Care Program Team Gary H. Ho, MD Mei-Kay Wong, MS, MPH, CGC, CPH Jun H. Choi MD 63 Downing Street New York, NY 10014 212-255-6690 Clinical Services Physical Therapy Services for Individuals Psychological Services for Individuals Medical Services Return to Work Program Consulting Services Corporate On-Site Physical Therapy Program Corporate Stress Management Program Corporate On-Site Medical Services Corporate Ergonomics Program Product Design & Consulting NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center is an interdisciplinary center for the treatment and prevention of musculoskeletal disorders. Our scientists, educators, and clinicians have expertise in managing the physical, psychological, and work-related aspects of musculoskeletal conditions. These specialists provide treatment, research, education, and consultation services, to the community and the workforce all under one roof. VIDEO: NYU Langone patient Maria McConnell discusses how the medical team at NYU Langone Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center helped her recover from a severe back injury. Clinical and Consulting Services As consultants to industry, labor, and government organizations—including Google, the United Nations, and Con Edison—we have implemented numerous successful programs aimed at preventing disability in the workplace. We combine therapeutic and medical technology with the expertise of specialists from NYU Langone Health. At the Occupational and Industrial Orthopedic Center, organizations have access to complete medical and diagnostic services, physical therapy, pain and stress management, and ergonomic workplace evaluation and accommodations. Our clinical services are designed to return workers to their pre-injury work status and everyday activities. Our patient-centered approach uses education and goal-oriented care to create a partnership that empowers patients to become active participants in their care. Our clinic offers ergonomics services Our consulting services include a corporate physical therapy program product design and evaluation Our physical therapists help the people they treat return to daily activities after injury or surgery. Ka Hing Chow ZD Zihao Du DPT, PT Dina Shah Innovations and advances in the treatment offered at Rusk Rehabilitation have set the standard in rehabilitation care for every stage of life and every phase of recovery. We offer expert treatment for a wide range of bone and joint conditions, paying special attention to patient comfort and convenience. We offer comprehensive treatment for the full spectrum of spinal disorders, so you can return to your normal activities. We have one of the largest orthopedic surgery programs in the country, providing care to tens of thousands of patients each year—from infants to older adults. 63 Downing Street, New York, NY, 10014 212-255-6754 Parking Metered parking spots are available along 6th and 7th Avenues. Other parking can be found on side streets. Please be sure to check posted signs for street cleaning and alternate side parking rules. There are also several parking garages located near Downing Street. We are open Monday through Thursday, 8:00AM to 7:00PM, and Friday, 8:00AM to 5:00PM Rethinking Diabetes Prevention in Older Adults Study tests digital innovation against traditional prevention programs for older patients. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection CDC-funded center will create national platform for sharing new initiatives. Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Specialists in geriatric cardiology call for greater attention to asymptomatic atrial fibrillation. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults A pilot program explores strategies to return more geriatric patients home safely. Findings Support Elective Paraesophageal Hernia Repair in Elderly Patients Large outcomes study signals a shift from watchful to operative management of PEHs in older adults. Classifying Glioma in Minutes VR Provides Precision View in Cranial Bypass Study finds virtual reality holds broad potential for neurosurgical bypass planning. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Collaborative research aims to deepen understanding of perceptual dysfunction—and to test a new paradigm for AI. Researchers Launch World’s Largest Public Database of Brain Tumor Scans Unique database combines longitudinal imaging with artificial intelligence tools to mine data and assess cancer progression. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurosurgeons joined international colleagues in Los Angeles, April 21–24. Stiff-Person Syndrome: A Challenging Diagnosis After multiple ineffective surgeries, neurologists pinpoint the rare condition and a potential medical treatment. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery With only 15 percent of the airway patent, treatment also required debulking via rigid bronchoscopy. A CT scan of the tracheal tumor. Fortuitous CT Reveals Hidden Tracheal Tumor A pediatric patient with a large tracheal tumor is cancer free after specialists at NYU Langone Health and Perlmutter Center teamed up to safely diagnose and resect the unusual growth. The patient presented to the pediatric intensive care unit at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital for respiratory sequelae initially attributed to COVID-19 when the mass was detected by CT. “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient,” says , an interventional pulmonologist assisting on the case. “We enjoy seeing each other work at such a high level.” “This team worked together seamlessly, drawing on every person’s expertise and strengths to do the best thing for the patient.” The mass emanated into the trachea from the posterior wall and blocked roughly 85 percent of the airway. The best treatment was determined to be surgical resection, but a biopsy was performed first to rule out lymphoma or other conditions not requiring major surgery. Dr. Bessich and pediatric pulmonologist , performed the biopsy using rigid bronchoscopy, chosen over flexible bronchoscopy for the ability to ventilate the airway. During the procedure, ablative therapy was also administered to excise a large portion of the tumor and minimize any risk of obstruction before surgery. “This was the youngest patient I’d ever seen with a tracheal mass, and it was the second youngest patient I’d ever performed a rigid bronchoscopy on,” says Dr. Bessich. When the biopsy confirmed that surgery was required, the patient was immediately scheduled, with pediatric surgeon , placing the patient on venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (VV ECMO) and thoracic surgeon , chief of clinical thoracic surgery, performing the minimally invasive operation. “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO.” “We are one of only a few centers in the world that can do this without opening the chest and on ECMO,” says Dr. Cerfolio. Pathology and genetic analyses ultimately determined the tumor to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma. With no signs of metastasis, it is unlikely that radiation or chemotherapy will be required. A Fortuitous CT Scan An 11-year-old patient was admitted to NYU Langone Health for symptoms attributed to severe COVID-19 when a large tracheal tumor was detected by CT. The mass left the airway only 15 percent patent and vulnerable to obstruction. Rigid bronchoscopy was performed to collect a specimen for biopsy and debulk the tumor. Determining the Best Approach to Treatment Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, performing the robotic surgery for tracheal resection and reconstruction. The pathology report ruled out conditions amenable to non-surgical treatment, confirming the need for tumor resection, and the patient was immediately scheduled for surgery. A Robotic Tracheal Reconstruction Supported by ECMO Surgeon’s view during the robotic tracheal resection and reconstruction. The minimally invasive robotic surgery involved removing the section of the trachea with the tumor and rejoining the two ends for reconstruction. Excellent Planning, an Efficient Surgery, and No Metastasis Jason C. Fisher, MD (left), and Robert J. Cerfolio, MD (right), in the operating room. The surgery was completed in 1 hour and 30 mins, and the patient was extubated the same day and breathing on her own within hours. Results from the NYU Langone FUSION-SEQer test confirmed the mass to be a low-grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma and imaging revealed no signs of metastasis. Jamie L. Bessich, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine and cardiothoracic surgery and the interim section chief of Interventional Pulmonology. Her research focuses on diagnosing lung neoplasms and lymph nodes using endoscopic ultrasound and advanced bronchoscopic techniques. Leading the Way in Breast Surgical Oncology Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH. Source: NYU Langone Health. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH , an acclaimed surgeon and expert in treating breast cancer, was recently named chief of the breast surgery division at NYU Langone Health’s . She is also a member of the With nearly three decades of experience, she has held several leadership positions and made numerous contributions to the field in both research and education. Here, Dr. Gemignani shares her perspective on leadership and training, spotlights key advancements in the field, and discusses her goals for improving the care of young women with cancer. The Value of Strong Leadership Dr. Gemignani , what motivated you to take on leadership roles in your field? Dr. Gemignani: In today’s healthcare landscape, the need for strong leadership is greater than ever, as it is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. The rapid advancement of clinical technologies like robotics, artificial intelligence, and precision medicine warrants the ability to assess how to successfully incorporate and leverage these innovations. When a healthcare team is not working together effectively, or lacks direction, patients often pay the price. Understanding this early in my career, I wanted to make a difference. The field of oncology, specifically women’s health and breast cancer, captured my attention in medical school. For the past two decades, my focus has been leading multidisciplinary teams in a variety of research and educational initiatives. What are your plans for education and surgical training at NYU Langone? Great question. It’s an exciting time to be an educator in surgical oncology—the landscape of education has changed to include roles and opportunities that expand beyond the operating room. I’m thrilled that we’ve been able to attract the best and brightest medical students and physicians to our field. Early exposure to the field of oncology can spark students’ interest in becoming a cancer physician. “The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable.” Mary Gemignani, MD, MPH One of my passions is training future leaders. As I previously mentioned, strong leadership is essential for delivering high-quality patient care. For almost 15 years, I directed one of the nation’s leading breast surgery fellowship programs, which produced many of the leaders in the field today. The field of surgery is becoming more multidisciplinary, and the traditional authoritative leadership approach of surgeons is no longer acceptable. I took a unique approach to training by ensuring my students gained more than just surgical skills. One example is by providing leadership-specific feedback, as current feedback mechanisms largely focus on clinical or technical skills. It is crucial to provide formative feedback to reinforce positive leadership behaviors and correct problematic ones. Here, I plan to do the same. Advancements in Estrogen-Receptor-Positive Breast Cancer You’ve been a breast surgeon for about 25 years. From your perspective, what is the key research area pushing the field forward? There is such a diversity—it’s really hard to pick just one. In the domain of imaging, the FDA recently approved the use of 18F-fluoroestradiol/positron-emission tomography (FES/PET) for patients with estrogen-receptor-positive (ER+) recurrent or metastatic breast cancer. My team published on the feasibility of the technique before it was commercialized by a biotech company. This advancement significantly improves our ability to stage ER+ cancer. While targeted therapy is effective for patients with ER+ disease, the evaluation of ER expression with immunohistochemical staining of biopsy samples is limited by factors such as sampling error, false negatives, and difficulties accessing biopsy sites. Serving as an adjunct to biopsy, FES helps to identify a target lesion for confirmatory biopsy, provide in vivo evaluation of biopsy-proven ER+ disease, and assess spatial and temporal ER heterogeneity. As experience with the tracer grows, expanded indications are possible, including use as a predictive biomarker for targeted therapy. Supporting Young Women Who Have Cancer In addition to pursuing clinical advancements, you are dedicated to promoting holistic care, especially for young women with cancer. Can you tell us more about this work? Yes. At my previous institution, I was co-director of the Young Women with Breast Cancer program, offering a full spectrum of care, support, education, and research for young women diagnosed with this disease. Young women with breast cancer—aged 45 or younger—face unique challenges, including interruption of work or school, treatment-related infertility, and issues with disruption of parental responsibilities. We conducted research to uncover the most pressing issues that hold significance for this population. I am now working to ensure that our care delivery prioritizes and effectively addresses those issues patients find most important. “The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options.” In a similar vein—my research interests extend to quality of life studies and patient-reported outcomes, specifically focusing on minimizing the side effects of treatment in young women with breast cancer. A good example is cytotoxic chemotherapy—investigating the types of chemotherapy, their doses, and treatment durations that result in the least amount of gonadal toxicity. The impact of treatment on fertility is important to young women; they value the ability to pursue fertility-preserving options. Elevating Care, Expanding Access What are your top priorities as you step into your new role? In my new role, I’m excited to work with other leaders across NYU Langone to continue to standardize the delivery of breast surgical care and expand access to clinical trials at all sites, including those in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Bringing my experience to a larger health system, I’m also excited about the opportunity to collaborate with other leaders within the organization. Take NYU Langone’s , where our patients, particularly young women with breast cancer, have access to the latest techniques for fertility preservation. Working together we can improve the quality of life for those patients during and after treatment. Alone, I cannot achieve all of my research goals. Here, we have a unique opportunity to bring together the best and brightest from a variety of disciplines. Mary L. Gemignani, MD, MPH, is chief of the breast surgery division at Perlmutter Cancer Center and a member of the Department of Surgery. She specializes in breast cancer surgery. NYU Langone Health Presenters at COSM 2024 See the experts from NYU Langone Health who are joining international colleagues in Chicago, May 15 to 19. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users An auditory scientist searches for potential solutions by studying patients with single-sided deafness. No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination An analysis of over 20 million vaccinated patients finds a higher facial paralysis risk with COVID-19 infection, but not with vaccination. Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Testing In-Office Tissue Regeneration for Eardrum Perforations New study explores minimally invasive procedure with novel growth factor to heal tympanic membrane perforations. Ramping Up Research for Metastatic Cancers Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. Radiation oncologist and clinical trials leader Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD , has joined NYU Langone Health’s as director of clinical research at the . He also serves as associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Dr. Yang has been at the forefront of driving innovation in the treatment of metastatic cancers and central nervous system (CNS) malignancies, leading several pivotal studies in leptomeningeal metastases (LM), systemic metastatic disease, and primary brain tumors. Here, Physician Focus speaks with Dr. Yang about the latest developments in metastatic disease and CNS malignancies. He also discusses upcoming clinical trials, two of which are set to open at Perlmutter Cancer Center later this year. Proton Therapy for Leptomeningeal Metastasis Dr. Yang, you recently presented encouraging data from a phase 2 trial suggesting that proton therapy is more effective than conventional radiation at treating LM. Why are these results important, and what’s next for this work? Dr. Yang: Exciting progress has been made in the treatment of LM. Prior to our study, photon involved-field radiotherapy was the standard of care for patients with LM from solid tumors. Although the choices have traditionally been limited for LM, we now have a better option—proton craniospinal irradiation —for a disease that is notoriously difficult to treat. “With the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise.” While conventional radiotherapy effectively treats local symptoms, craniospinal irradiation treats the entire leptomeningeal compartment. Protons deposit the bulk of their energy at the last few millimeters of their range, leading to significantly less toxicity Furthermore, advancements in imaging technology novel cerebrospinal fluid diagnostic tools have enabled better detection of LM. So now, with the arrival of proton therapy, LM can be detected and be effectively treated earlier in its disease course, allowing patients to live longer without neurologic compromise. Building on these findings, we’re analyzing molecular data from patients to pinpoint biomarkers that can aid in patient selection. We also plan to validate these results in a larger group of patients in an upcoming national trial. Trailblazing in Clinical Trials Beyond LM, what other promising trials are on the horizon? There are several in progress, but I’ll highlight two. The first is a phase 1 trial evaluating AZD1390 , an ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) kinase inhibitor, in combination with radiotherapy for patients with glioblastoma. Despite efforts to improve survival in glioblastoma, a backbone of radiotherapy with or without temozolomide has remained the standard of care for the past two decades. AZD1390 showed promising preclinical results by offering antitumor effects without worsening radiotherapy toxicity in the healthy brain tissue. At the AACR Annual Meeting 2024, I presented early safety and efficacy results for the combination approach, showcasing its potential utility as a radiosensitizing treatment in glioblastoma. I am continuing to work with the sponsor in not only the development of AZD1390 with radiotherapy in brain tumors, but also in systemic metastatic disease, for which we are in the process of opening a trial here at NYU Langone. The second is a national trial that will investigate the use of prophylactic radiation therapy—compared with standard of care—for asymptomatic, high-risk bone metastases. In most cases, radiation therapy is utilized to treat painful bone metastases, but we’re interested in examining the potential advantages of a proactive strategy. The study protocol, which builds upon a previous phase 2 trial , is currently being finalized, with plans to open later this year. What