these settings. Additionally, the REACH FAR coalition has worked closely with NYCDOHMH to scale and implement diabetes prevention and diabetes management program in South Asian communities over the past four years, offering a prime opportunity to enhance referral to and support sustainability mechanisms for existing programs Growing out of this work, as part of the Community Service Plan, we partnered with two mosques on the Lower East Side, Manhattan Assafa Islamic Center and Madina Masjid two mosques in Sunset Park, Brooklyn Muslim Community Center and Jame Mohammadia and two mosques in Kensington, Brooklyn—Brooklyn Islamic Center and Masjid Nur Al Islam to extend the REACH FAR program. Our efforts were designed to improve blood pressure control and promote healthy eating using a three pronged approach: (1) implementing the Keep on Track program in mosques within the CSP catchment area; (2) implementing nutritional strategies, including education and changes to communal food practices; and (3) providing culturally tailored communications and education. Assafa has a total of 1500 congregants and average weekly attendance of 250 congregants at the Friday Jummah prayers. Madina Masjid has a congregation of 2000 and average weekly attendance of 400 congregants at the Friday Jummah prayers. The Muslim Community Center has a congregation size of 500 and average weekly attendance is about 200 at the Friday Jumma prayer. Jame Mohammadia has a congregation size of 200 and average attendance is about 100 at the Friday Jumma prayer. Brooklyn Islamic Center has a congregation size of 700 and average attendance is about 300 at the Friday Jumma prayer. Masjid Nur Al Islam has a congregation size of 400 with an attendance of 250 mosque members at Friday’s Jumma prayer. To facilitate Keep on Track program, REACH FAR’s Community Health Workers trained 38 volunteers from these mosques who are now capable of providing free monthly blood pressure screenings and basic hypertension reduction and management strategies to the mosque congregants. Prior to the outbreak of COVID 19, about 500 mosque members received free blood pressure screening and counseling from KOT program. 54 COVID 19: REACH FAR Community Response and Resiliency: KOT programmatic activities have been paused since March of 2020 due to the closure of many faith based organizations resulting from the COVID 19 pandemic. Mosques remained closed and in person blood pressure screening was not possible. The Muslim community was hit hard by the pandemic. Translated, accurate information on preventing exposure to COVID and on how to navigate existing resources was largely unavailable. This fueled fear as the death toll rose and many were hospitalized with severe disease. Moreover, many lost jobs or were unable to work, leading to a loss of health insurance, and the need for unemployment insurance, mental health support, food, and other daily necessary goods. Elderly community members, especially, could not go out to get needed medication. REACH FAR’s CHWs responded quickly in partnership with mosque leaders and volunteers and shifted focus to help community members meet these immediate needs. The CHWs quickly translated information on how to stop the spread and flatten the curve; this information was widely disseminated through social and electronic media, text messages, or even by relaying information over the phone, reaching more than 10,000 community members. REACH FAR directly supported COVID vaccination outreach, working to address vaccine hesitancy, disseminate accurate information on the vaccine, bring mobile vaccine vans to community settings, set up pop up clinics at mosques, and make vaccine appointments for the community members. They conducted in language (Arabic, Bengali, Hindi, Urdu) live community forums and seminars on COVID 19 vaccination information to address myths and facts of vaccination via ethnic TV channels, Zoom and Facebook Live. These events reached about 19,000 community members, locally, nationally, and internationally. Moderated by REACH FAR’s CHWs, mosque imams were present as guest speakers to provide accurate religious information to debunk myths on the vaccine, and ethnic trusted doctors shared expert opinions; local social and ethnic media widely shared the information with support from youth sports organizations and community based organizations. REACH FAR also worked with two local ethnic media newspaper (each with a weekly circulation of 8,000) and published accurate information on the vaccine. REACH FAR also conducted in language (Bengali and Arabic) mental health related community forums and seminars via Zoom and Facebook Live with South Asian and Arab American community partners to address COVID 19 related stressors, reaching more than 4,000 community members. 55 To help community members with personal protective equipment (PPE), foods, groceries, and medicine delivery, the CHWs worked with mosque volunteers, local restaurants, youth sports organizations, and community based organizations. They delivered food, medicine, and groceries to the doorsteps of vulnerable community members, in addition to distributing hot meals and PPEs by organizing a number of food pantry/table at common community sites, mosques, and businesses. More than 2,000 individuals and families were reached through these efforts. In partnership with community based and faith based partners and with support from NYC Health + Hospital, REACH FAR jointly hosted pop up vaccine clinics and vaccine vans at local mosques and community based organizations and provided volunteer support with language interpretation. Through this outreach, approximately 1000 community members received COVID 19 vaccines. In partnership with NYU Center for the Study of Asian American Health (NYU CSAAH), REACH FAR’s CHWs provided cultural competency training on South Asian culture to 1,400 COVID 19 contact tracers of New York State Department of Health. Prior to the pandemic, from September 2019 to December 2019, REACH FAR conducted two in person community seminars on diabetes and hypertension management, attended by 35 women. REACH FAR also distributed fresh fruits as a healthy food option to approximately 800 mosque congregants. Additionally, in November and December of 2019, led by Arabic speaking CHW, we conducted two in person seminars on breast and cervical cancer screening awareness for Muslim women in Brooklyn attended by 65 women. Once the pandemic began, REACH FAR pivoted to provide services virtually. For example, REACH FAR’s CHWs organized a live Zoom workshop on hypertension and diabetes management during Ramadan of 2021 attended by 50 community members. CHWs also expanded their services to meet urgent needs, for example, by assisting community members in applying for unemployment insurance either by directly applying for them or by connecting them to the appropriate resources. Since September 1, 2019, close to 100 community members received assistance with health and unemployment insurance applications through REACH FAR. REACH FAR also worked with two ethnic media newspapers to disseminate information on health insurance and unemployment insurance. DREAM Initiative: In our previous work, we have demonstrated the efficacy of a culturally tailored CHW intervention to improve diabetes prevention and management outcomes in South Asian communities. Building upon this work, the National Institute of Health funded DREAM Initiative is testing the effectiveness of the intervention across South Asian communities receiving care in network of 20 community based primary care practice settings. The initiative is being implemented in five community based primary care practice settings in Brooklyn serving the South Asian and Arab American communities, serving more than 5,000 patients with diabetes or pre diabetes. The initiative is also guided by input from community based organizations in Brooklyn, including Council of People’s Organizations (COPO), serving 56 the South Asian population in Brooklyn and serving 13,000 clients annually and Arab American Family Support Center who serves 20,000 clients annually. Plans Because of COVID 19, REACH FAR could not fully implement KOT and Nutrition Strategy programs at two of the new sites—Brooklyn Islamic Center and Masjid Nur Al Islam. As soon as in person work becomes more feasible, in Year 1, we will resume these programs at these sites. We will also work with the volunteers of Muslim Community Center (MCC) and Jame Mohammadia Masjid to restart the KOT program. Prior to the outbreak of COVID 19, from September 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019, in partnership with Arab American organizations in Brooklyn, REACH FAR led the Arab American Community Health Needs Assessment in Brooklyn described in Section I.C. 2. The results, which were shared with community partners, local leaders, and healthcare providers, together with follow up meetings with partners, will guide implementation of targeted programs in the community. Responding to the needs identified, we will continue to conduct the breast and cervical cancer awareness program for Muslim women (MARHABA). Through this program, group education sessions will be conducted for women in community and faith based settings to raise awareness of breast and cervical cancer screening. Women who need screening assistance will be connected to the Perlmutter Cancer Center. Since high blood pressure emerged as one of the top priority health issues, several of the community partners showed interests in hosting KOT program at their sites once in person implementation becomes possible. Building upon the success of KOT implementation through REACH FAR and our previous CSP supported efforts, towards the end of Year 1 and at the beginning of Year 2, we plan to work with the two Brooklyn based Arab American CBOs —Arab American Association of New York and Arab American Family Support Center to implement the KOT program. These two organizations serve a large number of Muslim Arab American and South Asian populations with a combined annual reach of 35,000 community members. They were two key partners in the Arab American Community Health Needs Assessment and played a significant role in planning, data collection, analysis, and dissemination of results. Also, in Years 2 and 3, we plan to extend the reach of the program by engaging two additional mosques in Brooklyn that serve the South Asian and Middle Eastern community. Two potential sites are Masjid Al Rahman and Darul Jannah Masjid. Working with mosque leadership, we will identify a health champion or committee, administer a baseline survey and organizational assessment and then collaboratively develop a plan to: (1) introduce policies and practices regarding serving healthy foods during communal meals or enhancing existing menus to incorporate healthy meal options (e.g., lower fat dairy products, serving brown rice); (2) implement a volunteer led blood pressure screening program (using the Keep on Track model); and (3) support program efforts with a communication strategy to inform community members about program activities and to increase awareness of the risk of cardiovascular disease. All program elements will be monitored to track progress, fidelity and satisfaction, as well as behavior change. Leveraging this network of trained faith based leaders and CHWs and building upon our existing Brooklyn based partnerships including NYU Langone Health Family Health Center and Brooklyn Hospital, 57 we will develop a strategy with mosque and CBO partners to connect individuals with high blood pressure to the health care system. In addition, individuals who need social service assistance will also be referred to the Family Health Centers and CBO partners. REACH FAR’s CHWs are trusted members of the community. In addition to providing KOT and Nutrition strategy training to the mosque and CBO volunteers, they will also provide trainings and workshops on diabetes prevention and management to the mosque members. REACH FAR will also work with the DREAM Initiative CHWs to develop a translated handbook on diabetes prevention and management to distribute to mosque and community members. DREAM Initiative CHWs will also offer culturally tailored nutrition and physical activity demonstrations and videos at CBO and faith based sites. As the REACH FAR CHWs are certified In Person Assistors/Navigators (IPAs/Navigators) through NY State of Health Marketplace, they will continue to assist mosque members with health insurance enrollment. Moreover, we will continue to build on our partnership with ethnic social and electronic media, ethnic doctors, community and religious leaders, businesses, sports teams, CBOs and NYC Health + Hospital to combat COVID 19 by providing culturally tailored accurate information on preventing the spread, testing, and vaccination. In partnership with faith based organizations and CBOs, we will also continue to conduct seminars on breast and cervical cancer awareness and mental health support, and connect people to needed services. Finally, REACH FAR will refer eligible and interested participants to the Mediators of Atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) in South Asians Living in America (MASALA) Study, which is funded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and is being conducted at NYU Langone Health at the Department of Population Health. The MASALA study is identifying i risk factors related to the hardening of the arteries in South Asians. Each participant will receive a free comprehensive medical exam at an NYU Medical Center facility. 4. Tobacco Free Community Progress and Impact Smoker Navigator Program: Since the Smoker Navigator Program launched in partnership with Asian Americans for Equity (AAFE) in 2014, we have worked in a concerted effort to address the disparities in tobacco use among Chinese Americans in the Lower East Side, Chinatown, and Sunset Park. AAFE, an affordable housing developer and social service provider, has partnered with the CSP to provide linguistically and culturally competent tobacco use cessation and prevention services, and serve as a resource for other organizations to address the disparities in tobacco use among Chinese American smokers. Studies have shown that community based navigation is an effective intervention to address the barriers to accessing tobacco cessation treatment services among low income smokers. The Smoker Navigator Program has been staffed by two AAFE Navigators who completed the 58 Rutgers Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist Training Program. Our aims are to: (1) identify and recruit smokers through community outreach, (2) educate and motivate smokers to quit or try to quit, and (3) refer smokers to evidence based smoking cessation resources (e.g., Asian Smoker Quitline). The AAFE Navigators reach out to community members who seek support from AAFE's community services programs, including those that address housing needs, insurance, and small business development. The Navigators also engage in other forms of community outreach, such as community based education workshops, and provider referrals. Smokers are provided with brief cessation counseling in person or by phone and offered free nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). Participants are then referred to the Asian Smokers Quitline (ASQ) for more intensive cessation counseling to provide additional support to increase smokers’ chance of quitting. Studies have shown that the more intense the treatment intervention, the greater the abstinence rate. In addition, the Smoker Navigator Program has strong relationships with nearby community based organizations, senior centers, health providers, and insurance companies. These partners have hosted community outreach activities such as virtual workshops and health events to educate the community about the harms of smoking and the dangers of secondhand smoke exposure, promote smoking cessation services, and offer guidance on making homes smoke free. The Smoker Navigator Program pivoted during the pandemic, suspending all in person counseling services and delivering services remotely by telephone, text, and video conferencing to ensure community members continue to receive assistance. Additionally, to enable physical distancing, smokers have had the option to pick up the NRT at the organization's office or receive the NRT through the mail after the initial counseling session. We also partnered with ASQ to facilitate a training on phone counseling. The Smoker Navigator Program has also used radio and television to increase awareness and conduct outreach through virtual workshops. For example, we collaborated with the Chinese American Medical Society (CAMS) on a 2020 Chinatown Smoke Free Day, recording a radio segment about smoking cessation with the Chinese Radio Network. The Smoker Navigator Program has also collaborated with CAMS on a pilot Physician Referral Program, which created a streamline process that allowed participating physicians to refer smokers to AAFE for cessation service. In partnership with the NYC Housing Authority (NYCHA), the Smoker Navigator Program has worked to support the Smoke Free NYCHA Liaison Program. Since the beginning of 2019, the Navigators have connected with several NYCHA Resident Association presidents to talk about AAFE’s smoking cessations services in their regularly held Resident Association meetings. The Navigators have also reached out to residents directly through a door knocking campaign to inform NYCHA residents of AAFE's cessation program. Navigator report: Participant struggles with quitting as he has had multiple attempts in the past. He wanted to create a healthier home environment for his daughter. The reasons he had multiple failed attempts were stress related as was as the majority of the people around him also smoke. “The advice the Navigator gave me plus the NRT was very helpful in terms of controlling the number of cigarettes I smoke per day.” NYCHA resident 59 The Smoker Navigator Program has continued to expand its collaboration with the Smoke Free NYCHA Liaison Program, linking Chinese speaking smokers in NYCHA housing to culturally competent cessation services. Participants in the Smoker Navigator program noted that AAFE counselors were supportive in the counseling sessions. "Encouragement to quit" was the most frequently response to "What did you find the most helpful in the Navigator program?" and reported that the Smoker Navigator Program was "very helpful." In addition, AAFE reached out to and informed over 5,000 people about the Smoker Navigator Program through community outreach activities. Partnership: Growing out of our CSP partnership and with the support of the RCHN Community Health Foundation, in 2015, the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC) launched a City wide initiative, which worked with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to recognize smoking among Asian American men as a health disparity and to commit resources to a culturally relevant and language accessible campaign to reduce smoking in the Asian American community. These efforts grew into a Smoking Partnership, which includes: four Federally Qualified Health Centers (CBWCHC, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, Community Healthcare Network and Union Community Health Center), AAFE, Korean Community Services of Metropolitan New York (KCS), the Chinese American Planning Council, the Chinese American Medical Society, the Chinese American Independent Practice Association, NYC Smoke Free at Public Health Solutions, NYC DOHMH, NYCHA, and NYU School of Global Public Health. September 2019 to December 2021 (N) Counseled 137 Receiving nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) 131 At 2 weeks follow up: reported using NRT 72 At 6 weeks follow up reported quit attempts 39 At 6 weeks follow up observational quit rate* 23 Referred to ASQ or NYS Quitline 70 *Participants who reported that they did not smoke in the past 7 days Members of the AATFCI/Smoking Partnership participating at a 2019 rally in support of legislation to outlaw flavors in electronic cigarette and other nicotine delivery products. 60 From 2018 2020, the Partnership supported the participating CBOs in seeking New York City Council funding to expand the Smokers Navigator program. This effort resulted in funding for KCS and the Northern Manhattan Coalition for Immigrant Rights to expand the Smokers Navigator Program to Korean Americans and other limited English proficient immigrant populations. From 2020 2021, in an effort to better understand organizational needs related to addressing high smoking prevalence within Asian American and other limited English proficient communities, the Partnership engaged the partners through meetings and surveys to identify collective priorities for the next three years. Through this needs assessment, the Smoking Partnership identified the following as priorities: development of an online smoking related resource repository; partner networking and communications; and smoking related policy development and advocacy. As described below, activities are underway or planned to address all of these areas. Survey and E cigarette Education Workshop: In 2019, an outbreak of lung injury associated with the use of e cigarette and vaping products among youth warranted a public health concern. Data from the National Youth Tobacco Survey showed that, from 2011 to 2018, current (past 30 day) e cigarette use increased from 1. to 20. among high school students and increased from 0. to 4. among middle school students. To address e cigarette use among youth and young adults in New York City, we collaborated with the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center’s Teen Resource Center (TRC) and Chinese American Planning Council’s Community Health Services (CHS) to conduct a series of workshops that focused on e cigarette use among youth. We leveraged the strong partnerships between the TRC and CHS and schools located in Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park in Brooklyn, and the extensive experience of the NYULH Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine's Prevention and Education Partnership (PEP) Talks team in nicotine education to reach adolescents who live, recreate, or attend school in the area. The TRC and CHS staff received e cigarette prevention training from the PEP Talks program. A total of 282 students participated in the workshops. After the workshops, of the students reported that they were "very satisfied" or "somewhat satisfied" with the workshop. In addition, student expressed interest in learning more about marijuana, and about e cigarette quitting resources. E cigarette Use in Asian American Youth and Youth Adults in NYC: To understand more about e cigarette use by Asian American youth, we partnered with the Chinese American Planning Council, Community Health Services in fielding an online survey among Asian American youth and young adults in New York City. The survey was conducted from December 2019 to August 2020. A total of 945 young people completed the survey. The Charles B. Wang Community Health Center Teen Resource Center (TRC): The mission of the TRC is to provide a safe space for Asian American and other underserved youth to learn new skills, develop confidence, build support networks, and serves as community health advocates. 61 Key findings: • Current e cigarettes use rates are low among Asian American youth (2.) and young adults (4.); • Most participants perceived e cigarettes as extremely/very harmful; • Fruit flavors were the most commonly used flavor, followed by menthol/mint; and • Convenience stores were the most commonly reported source of e cigarette advertising exposure, followed by the Internet; TV was the least commonly reported source of exposure. Although, according to the latest NY Youth Tobacco Survey, the rates of e cigarette use among high school students has decreased from 27. in 2018 to 22. in 2020, community concern, particularly about flavored products, has led the Smoking Partnership to include this issue on its advocacy agenda. WeChat Quit Coach Pilot Program: Mobile messaging interventions have the potential to reach large audiences and expand smokers' access to cessation programs. Taking advantage of the popularity of WeChat in the Chinese American community, we piloted a culturally adapted and linguistically appropriate WeChat based mobile messaging smoking cessation intervention. (WeChat, the most frequently used social media platform among Chinese globally, has 1.2 billion monthly active users worldwide as of May 2020.) We culturally adapted messages from two text messaging smoking cessation programs (SmokefreeTXT and Decídetexto). We also developed new messages tailored to Chinese immigrant smokers who are not ready to quit smoking or face barriers to quitting. Next, we conducted in depth interviews with 20 Chinese immigrant in New York City between July and August 2021. The interviews explored participants' smoking and quitting experiences, followed by the assessment of messages. The preliminary data resulted in a grant to conduct randomized controlled trial to test the feasibility and acceptability of the WeChat cessation intervention in group setting. Participants in the intervention group will receive a 6 week WeChat Quit Coach Intervention. Plans Smoker Navigator Program Tobacco Cessation Outreach: The Navigators will continue their outreach with the goal of enrolling at least 85 smokers in the Smoker Navigator Program each year, providing NRT to at least 50 smokers, and referring at least 35 smokers to ASQ or New York State Smokers’ Quitline. In addition, each year, the Navigators will do broader community education and outreach through workshops, community events and health fairs in collaboration with other community based organizations. We anticipate that they will reach about 1,000 people each year in this way. The Chinese American Planning Council, Community Health Services (CHS): CHS offers multiple health services that educate, inspire, and empower healthy outcomes through outreach, prevention education, program development, and community advocacy. 62 NRT Usage Evaluation: Studies have demonstrated that distribution of free NRT through community based organizations is a feasible and effective way to access this evidence based treatment for the immigrants who smoke. However, NRT use is low among Asian American smokers attempting to quit (only 8.). To evaluate the quitting experiences and barriers to NRT use among Chinese smokers, the Navigators will reach out to current and past program participants (~50) to understand their experiences with NRT. The Navigator program will collaboratively develop a questionnaire to identify the reasons and challenges for program participants who did not use the full two weeks supply. We will use this information to help guide the Navigator's approach to recommending and distributing NRT. Residential Services: In addition, the Program will expand to provide residential services in tenants on the Lower East Side and Chinatown: § The Navigators will partner with AAFE’s new Residential Services at the 111 Norfolk Street Community Resource Center, which provides housing and support for people who have been unhoused, seniors, and people experiencing mentally illness and chemical dependency. The Navigators will provide outreach to residents and others who receive services at this site, offering smoking cessation counseling and services. § AAFE has been actively working with Jacob Riis Housing and community leaders and policymakers to serve as a cultural liaison and to bridge the language access gap at this NYCHA site. In this next 3 year cycle, we will build on this relationship to expand our smoking cessation navigation program to this under served Chinese American population. The annual target across these 2 new residential sites is to reach and educate at least 20 smokers and refer 10 smokers to ASQ. The Smoker Navigator Program will also work with AAFE as it expands its electronic outreach through the Twillo app to reach residents about smoking cessation services. This app enables AAFE to send mass texts to AAFE’s 600 tenants within Chinatown and the Lower East Side. Participants in our smoking cessation program will also have access to wellness workshops, including free Tai Chi, Yoga, pantry services, and monthly acupuncture. Smoker Navigator Lung Screening and Smoking Cessation Referral Project: Due to the high rates of smoking, lung cancer is a concern for the Chinese American community. Over the next three years, the Smoker Navigator Program will increase awareness of lung cancer screening and develop a referral pathway to connect smokers to lung cancer screening and smoking cessation services. The project aims to create a bi directional partnership between AAFE and NYU Langone's Lung Cancer Screening Program to connect smokers to culturally and linguistically appropriate resources on smoking cessation and lung cancer screening. The primary focus of the first year partnership is to develop a referral pathway including methods of communication, strategies for incorporating awareness of lung cancer screening in outreach events, and project monitoring and evaluation. AAFE will work with NYU Langone's Lung Cancer Screening program by implementing simple smoking cessation/lung cancer related questions during cessation counseling or 63 the lung cancer screening process. If any participant or family member expresses interest in the lung cancer screening program, AAFE's Navigators will forward the contact information to NYU's Lung Cancer Screening program representative. The Smoker Navigator Program will educate at least 35 smokers about lung cancer screening annually. Pilot Acupuncture and Smoking Cessation Service: As part of the wellness program at the 111 Norfolk Street Community Resource Center, AAFE is developing a pilot acupuncture program intended to help reduce smoking craving and stress among program participants. The Navigators will work with the acupuncturist to identify the best approach and treatment method for smokers interested in the acupuncture program. The Smoker Navigator Program will also develop evaluation tools and collect feedback from smokers participating in acupuncture sessions. Partnership: Led by the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center, the Smoking Partnership will continue to coordinate and strengthen community based capacity to implement smoking cessation programs and prevention services within the Asian American community in New York City, with a specific focus on the Lower East Side and Chinatown neighborhoods of Lower Manhattan and within Brooklyn. In the next three years, the Partnership will focus on: § Better understanding the partners’ perspectives on tobacco related policies, informing the partnership of relevant policy and advocacy opportunities, and developing an advocacy strategy; § Improving engagement with partners to encourage greater participation and ownership of the partnership and its related activities through consensus building activities and the development of shared goals; § Collaboratively developing a Resource Repository website of tobacco related resources; and § Collaboratively designing and implementing an evaluation of the Partnership. 5. Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program, an evidence based educational program designed to build disease management skills and confidence, is being implemented in libraries and other community settings in Nassau County. The education/workshop series focuses on disease management skills, addressing decision making, problem solving, and action planning. Chronic diseases, such as heart disease, cancer, diabetes, stroke, and arthritis, are the leading causes of disability and death in New York Sample of planned repository 64 State. This program is designed to help people with many different physical and mental health conditions learn the skills, practical tips, suggestions, and strategies to build confidence in managing chronic conditions and symptoms daily while doing what they need and want to do. Program staff facilitate the sessions using a comprehensive manual. Participants attend 2.5 hour weekly sessions conducted over six weeks. During this time, they develop individual approaches to setting goals, making decisions, and finding resources and support to live a healthy life with chronic conditions. The workshop sessions cover such topics as becoming an active self manager; finding and assessing resources; understanding and managing common symptoms; finding ways to be active; managing medications; communicating effectively with family, friends, and health professionals; nutrition; evaluating new treatments; and planning for the future. Sessions also cover the management of specific diseases, including chronic lung disease, heart disease, high blood pressure, stroke, and diabetes. Studies have found that participants are more active and experience less depression, fear and worry about their health. They also experience a reduction in symptoms and increased confidence in their ability to manage their condition. Progress and Impact The Long Island based Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management program partnered with four community based organizations, reaching a total of 36 participants for the six session series: § Hillside Public Library in New Hyde Park: 11 participants; § Seasons 55+ Senior Community in East Meadow: 8 participants; § "Yes We Can" Community Center in Westbury: 10 participants; and § Garden City Public Library: 7 participants. The program is very interactive and fosters and relies on group participation. The facilitators present information and guide the participants to their own decisions by brainstorming and suggestions from the group. The planned continuation and expansion of the program was put on hold due to the pandemic, but as described below, it is starting up again and will grow in the coming years. Here’s what participants said about the program: “I recently attended a six week course offered by the Hospital. Each session dealt with specific topics, such as self management, problem solving techniques, dealing with emotions, safety in and out of the home, decision making strategies, and the importance of sleep, exercise, socialization, healthy eating, and humor as we age. Each week we were challenged to become a better version of ourselves by employing these different techniques. The goal of the course is to empower each of us to deal with aging, illness, and loss. I may not be able to stop the clock on any of these realities, but I’m better prepared to face them after this course.” “The nurses had good skills communicating with the group—knowledgeable, pleasant, and whenever questions came up, they gave a sufficient answer. They were important to the success, and I would readily recommend this type of meeting to my friends. I learned a great deal and found I had misconceptions about some things regarding medications, recording them, and keeping the doctor aware of any changes. I feel this program enhanced my ability to have a more healthy lifestyle which was my goal when I joined the group. Most important, less need for the E.R”. 65 Plans Over the next three years, the Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program will expand to two additional libraries in Nassau County. Other referrals will come through planned outreach to 25 health care providers and community based organizations to educate them about the benefits of the program to their patients and clients. Through this outreach, we plan to reach 128 new participants. To strengthen program content, we plan to add a social worker and pharmacy representative to the sessions. To evaluate the program’s effectiveness, we will develop a survey of participants to be collected at baseline, immediately post program, and six months later. 6. Red Hook Community Health Network Red Hook Community Health Network (RHCHN) is a network of community based organizations and health partners working to improve the health of Red Hook residents by expanding access to health services and organizing to address root causes of health disparities of the community. The Network was developed in response to the Red Hook Community Health Needs and Assets Assessment (CHNAA), undertaken as part of previous NYULH CHNAA and published in 2018. The Red Hook CHNAA served as an outlet for residents to articulate important health issues, neighborhood strengths, and needed programs and services to improve the health and wellbeing of Red Hook residents. These recommendations and issues are at the core of RHCHN’s focus. The Network steering committee is composed of the following organizations: Alex House Project, Red Hook Community Justice Center, Good Shepherd Services, Red Hook Initiative, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and Department of Population Health at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. (See Section I.C.3 for a description of these community based organizations.) Progress and Impact Community Health Worker Program: Recognizing the need to support Red Hook residents by connecting them with resources to address medical and social determinants of health, the Network created a Red Hook Community Health Worker program, which launched in 2020. Support and referrals include: unemployment, health insurance, benefits, primary care (including COVID testing and vaccination), and specialty medical care. Referrals lead to food security resources in Red Hook, connection to health and mental health services (including telehealth), and benefits application assistance. The Community Health Worker Program consists of one CHW who is trained and supported by the Family Health Centers of NYU Langone. The CHW is co located 66 in various settings throughout the neighborhood on a weekly basis in order to ensure accessibility and visibility in the community. The CHW program has significantly enhanced the capacity of existing community organizations and schools especially since the CHW was able to work onsite at three locations (PS 15, Red Hook Community Justice Center, and the Red Hook Initiative). To date, Network partners have referred 165 Red Hook residents to the CHW who has connected them to medical, social, and economic resources through direct service and referrals. Network Workgroups: The RHCHN continues to primarily meet virtually due to the ongoing COVID 19 pandemic. This, however, has not inhibited the expansion of the Network’s work and partnerships. In August 2021, a new Network Manager was hired and new partnerships began to form as the Manager began building new relationships in Red Hook. The Network is also building deeper relationships with schools in the neighborhood, including PS 15, PAVE Academy, PS 676, and Summit Academy. These schools provide an important safety net for families in Red Hook and continue to provide valuable insight and information to the RHCHN. The Network has refined and developed the mission and structure of the RHCHN and has formed several workgroups, with the goal of consistently having three Workgroups activated every year: the Network Steering Committee and at least two community priority Workgroups. The community priority Workgroups will advance access and resident health and wellbeing by identifying emerging community needs, assessing the resource landscape within and beyond Red Hook, and identifying opportunities for advocacy and resource coordination or development. To date, the following groups are meeting on a monthly basis: • Network Steering Committee • Health and Housing Workgroup • Access to Care Workgroup Network Steering Committee The Red Hook community has felt the consequences of the COVID 19 pandemic (see Section I.C.3) and continues to be a place where resources for testing and vaccinations are limited. During the pandemic, the Network Steering Committee has spearheaded the coordination of COVID 19 response efforts, mobilizing to ensure Red Hook residents have the latest information about the virus and have access to essential resources. Although this work was done in person when possible, much of the resource sharing was accomplished through the Red Hook HUB, a website where anyone can post information and resources relevant to Red Hook. The Network also supported Alex House Project in obtaining a grant of