suppression shall be integral to electrical panels located in IDF and BDF rooms. The surge suppression device shall be located in the electrical panel and not a separate device. All real estate properties shall have surge suppression installed on main panelboards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Current Technology b. General Electric c. Liebert d. United Technologies e. ABB 45. Type "AC" (Armored Cable) Conductor Cables, 600 Volts or Less All shall be UL Listed. Armored Cable shall be hospital grade BX. In lieu of armored cable, metal clad (aluminum) is allowable. Approved Manufacturers: a. AFC b. Alflex c. Southwire 46. UPS (Central) Factory testing shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. UPS shall have webserver capabilities to login (with credentials) to view all operating characteristics of unit. This link shall be integrated within the BMS. Provide power conditioners for sensitive medical imaging (MRI, LINAC, etc.) Centralized UPS is preferred in lieu of rack mounted for data equipment. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 464 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Vertiv (data equipment only) b. Eaton (data equipment only) c. Mitsubishi (medical equipment only) 47. UPS (Rack Mounted) Approved Manufacturers: a. Vertiv 48. Wall Dimmers Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper 49. Wire Connectors and Lugs All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. AMP b. Anderson/Hubbell c. Burndy d. Homac e. Ideal f. ITT Blackburn g. MAC h. Thomas & Betts i. Tyco Electronics/AMP j. Union Connector Co. k. 3M END OF ELECTRICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 465 2024 4. PLUMBING A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Plumbing Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, Department of Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. Domestic Hot Water Plant Temperature shall be: 140°F in Kimmel Pavilion, all other spaces shall be 120°F. II. Patient room maximum domestic water temperature shall be: 110°F. III. Plumbing fixtures shall be of high efficiency conserving type to comply with the City of New York Water Conservation requirements or other local applicable water conservation requirements. IV. All domestic water piping shall be type “L” copper, unless otherwise dictated by code. V. Point of use mixing valves shall be provided under all lavatories, hand sinks, pantry sinks and similar fixtures where required by code. VI. Pressure at fixtures shall be designed to provide a maximum of 85 psi. VII. Pressure reducing valves shall be installed wherever the water pressure exceeds 85 psi. VIII. The piping shall be sized to provide a maximum velocity of 6 feet per second (fps) in the mains, and 4 fps in all branch piping. IX. Hose bibs with ¾ inch male hose threads and vacuum breaker shall be provided in all mechanical spaces. X. Mechanical rooms and water service rooms shall be provided with floor drains and waterless trap seals. XI. Provide a waterless trap seal for all floor drains in addition to a trap primer (2014 NYC Plumbing Code and earlier) or hose bib within 25 ft. 0 in. of drain (2022 NYC Plumbing Code). XII. All new floor drains/roof drains are to be provided with gasketed outlet connections. Each drain is to be provided with additional anchors and a riser clamp to provide extra support on the drain outlets. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 466 2024 XIII. All sanitary, vent and storm drainage piping above the design flood elevation (DFE) shall be hubless cast iron pipe with heavy duty couplings or hub and spigot piping with push on gaskets. Piping 4” and less shall be hubless, 5” and greater shall be hub and spigot. All piping within cellars shall be hub and spigot. XIV. Storm piping, sump discharge piping and ejector discharge piping located below the design flood elevation shall be grooved, schedule 40 galvanized steel pipe with mechanical couplings. Alternative materials shall be used for sump discharge piping where dictated by ground water quality. XV. All sanitary, vent and storm drainage piping buried below slab, draining to an ejector or sump pit shall be extra heavy hub and spigot cast iron with push on gaskets. XVI. Galvanized Schedule 40 steel or extra heavy hub and spigot to be provided for storm drainage system which is not buried. XVII. All sanitary, vent, and storm piping below the design flood elevation (DFE) shall be ductile iron with mechanical couplings. XVIII. All natural gas piping with gas pressures ½ psig and less shall be schedule 40 steel piping with threaded fittings for sizes up to and including 3 inches and natural gas piping larger than 3 inches shall be schedule 40 piping with welded joints. XIX. All natural gas piping with gas pressures greater than ½ psig shall be schedule 40 steel piping with welded joints. XX. All medical gas piping and vacuum piping shall be brazed and designed and installed with as much a direct pathway as possible with limited “ups and downs” which creates traps. XXI. Medical fittings, valves and piping shall come cleaned and flushed in sealed packaging from the manufacturer. XXII. Hydronic systems with bottom of system make ups must have a manual make up connection RPZ/backflow preventer at the top of the system as a backup. XXIII. Brass caps shall be provided on all drain lines. XXIV. Medical gas takeoffs from riser shall be full size throughout floor loop. The piping size shall not be reduced on a floor loop. Takeoffs from floor loops shall be sized adequately. XXV. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 467 2024 XXVI. All domestic water recirculating lines shall be balanced by a certified testing and balancing contractor. Design drawings shall indicate flow requirements for each balancing valve. XXVII. Medical gas telemetry include a scale where liquid cylinders are loaded, a controller cable, and a scale controller. The scale can be a separate device within the gas cylinder room or it can be into the loading dock ramp/lift. The controller shall be equipped with a dry contact that will trigger and external alarm when the weight of the cylinder drops below weight setpoint. XXVIII. Access to be provided to areas directly below all drains, including but not limited to floor drains, floor sinks, roof drains, etc., on the floor below. XXIX. Hot water circulation piping shall extend to stop valve. XXX. Sump systems taking in groundwater shall be provided with a self priming pump in addition to submersible sumps. XXXI. For situations where there is one central hot water circulation riser serving a zone and the riser is located far from the area of work on a particular floor, the hot water riser adjacent to the area of work shall be tapped (full size), looped around the floor to serve the fixtures, then tied back into the riser. A normally closed valve shall be provided between the two taps on the vertical portion of the riser. XXXII. Riser sizes shall remain as the largest full size throughout the building. Risers shall not decrease in size as the load decreases towards the top/bottom of the riser. XXXIII. Provide cleanout wall plates for all bathrooms above the level of a toilet (not below). Cleanouts are to be located behind a wall access door and the pipe termination shall be provided with a cast iron cap with a no hubcoupling. The no hub coupling shall not be fastened tight to the pipe to allow for easy removal. XXXIV. Minimum pipe size for all medical/laboratory vacuum pipes shall be at least 1”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 468 2024 C. Equipment 1. Acid Neutralization Systems shall be centralized and comprised of sediment tank, pre treatment tank (no limestone), chemical injection tank and sampling tank in compliance with DEP standards. Provide a sediment interceptor on the inlet to the acid neutralization system with a normally closed bypass. Provide a safety shower in the Acid Neutralization Room In Manhattan main campus acid waste/vent piping shall be Orion plain end type with electrofused connections. Approved Manufacturers: a. Town and Country 2. Backflow Preventers Provide a plug valve downstream of backflow valve for all sanitary and storm POEs within a flood zone. Approved Manufacturers: a. Watts b. Febco 3. Baseboard Radiation (Steam/Water) See Mechanical subsection 4. Drains Weep hole drains are not allowed unless liners are designed as part of the system and installed as such. Approved Manufacturers: a. Josam b. JR Smith c. Zurn 5. Flow Measuring Devices A positive displacement meter shall be installed for domestic water systems if one is required. Status of meter and flowrate shall be monitored on the building management system. Confirm with NYULH facilities with meter manufacturer. 6. Gauges and Thermometers Temperature Scale Ranges: Domestic Hot Water Piping: 20 to 250 deg F Steam Condensate Piping: 0 to 250 deg F Steam Piping: 212 to 250 deg F NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 469 2024 Compound gauges shall be used on suction side of pumps when required due to system pressure. Digital Vari Angle Thermometers (Digital Solar) to be used in place of Liquid In Glass type. Pressure Scale Ranges: Design engineer shall specify proper scales based on operating pressures. Switches, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. Instrument Test Ports 1) Peterson Equipment 2) Watts Regulator b. Pressure Gauges 1. Accuracy 1) Ashcroft 2) Trerice 3) Weiss 4) Weksler c. Pressure Switches 1) Barksdale 2) Dwyer 3) Mercoid 4) Square D d. Thermometers 1. Accuracy 1) Trerice 2) Weiss 3) Weksler 7. Hot Water Heaters Approved Manufacturers: a. Patterson Kelley Company b. A.O. Smith 8. Insulation Piping insulation shall comply with latest codes and energy conservation codes. Strainers and automatic control valves that are installed on piping which is insulated shall have removable insulation covers that are secured with straps or ties. Insulation contractor shall not encase strainer and automatic control valves in field fabricated insulation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 470 2024 9. Medical Air Compressors Compressors shall be oil less reciprocating compressors and compliant with the latest NFPA 99 standards. Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes 10. Medical Gas Equipment and Zone Valve Boxes Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes 11. Medical Gas System Points The following medical gas system points shall be hardwired or monitored via BMS. These points shall be reviewed with facilities prior to a BID set being issued as every system will differ. System Alarm BMS (Monitoring) Master Alarm Panel (Hardwired) Instrument Air High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x High temp 1 x x High temp 2 x x General warning, Controller x x General Fault, Controller x x LAG x x High Dewpoint x x General Warning, compressor x General Fault, compressor x Medical Air High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x High temp 1 x x High temp 2 x x General warning, Controller x x General Fault, Controller x x LAG x x High Dewpoint x x Comp Status 1 x Comp Status 2 x NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 471 2024 System Alarm BMS (Monitoring) Master Alarm Panel (Hardwired) Oxygen High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x Liquid Level Low x x Reserve Liquid Level Low x x Changeover x x Reserve In Use x x Reserve Pressure Low x x Nitrous Oxide High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x Changeover x x Carbon Dioxide High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x Changeover x x Reserve in Use x x Nitrogen High Pressure x x Low Pressure x x Reserve In Use x x Reserve High Pressure x x Reserve Low Pressure x x Changeover x x Dual Use VacuumLow Vacuum x x LAG x x FTL 1 x x FTL 2 x x Low Seal Water Flow 1 x Low Seal Water Flow 2 x Liquid Level Low 1 x Liquid Level Low 2 x Liquid Level Low Low 1 x Liquid Level Low Low 2 x NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 472 2024 System Alarm BMS (Monitoring) Master Alarm Panel (Hardwired) WAGD Low Vacuum x x LAG x x FTL 1 x x FTL 2 x x Low Seal Water Flow 1 x Low Seal Water Flow 2 x Liquid Level Low 1 x Liquid Level Low 2 x Liquid Level Low Low 1 x Liquid Level Low Low 2 x Pneumatic Air High Pressure x Low Pressure x High temp 1 x High temp 2 x General warning, Controller x General Fault, Controller x LAG x High Dewpoint x General Warning, compressor x General Fault, compressor x 12. Medical Gas Outlets Outlets shall be DISS type, having a minimum pig tail connection point of ½” for all services. Vacuum and WAGD piping shall drop individually to each outlet. Header piping shall be readily accessible and shall be a minimum of 1”. Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes 13. Motors Conform to NEMA MG 1. Motors shall not operate continuously at a service factor greater than 1. Design to a service factor of a minimum of 1.15. Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Motors to be with permanently greased bearings (preferred). If permanently greased bearings are not provided, grease ports shall be provided with adequate access grease capillaries are not allowed. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 473 2024 Approved Manufacturers: a. Standard Efficiency (Less Than 1 hp) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg b. Premium Efficiency (1 hp and Above) 1) Baldor 2) General Electric 3) Toshiba 4) U.S. Motors 5) Dayton 6) Marathon 7) Weg 14. Motor Starters Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. ASCO c. Allen Bradley d. Siemens e. Yaskawa Electric America 15. Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) VFDs and VFD bypass shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Asea Brown Boveri (ABB) b. General Electric c. Toshiba d. Yaskawa Electric America 16. Orifice Steam Traps (Venturi Orifice Type) Steam traps to have unions upstream and downstream of traps. Approved Manufacturers: a. Steam Gard 17. Pipe and Fittings Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 474 2024 where dielectric shall be placed. Piping ball joints for movement between buildings shall be flanged and not welded. Steam pipe gaskets are to be solid graphite type (Equalseal EQ FG P). Spiral wound gaskets will not be accepted. Clamp free acid waste piping allowable only under a sink where piping ties into the trap. Press fittings can be considered on a case by case basis. Discuss this request with NYULH Engineering prior to design. Approved Manufacturers: a. Gaskets 1) Garlock 2) Flexitallic 3) Lamons 4) Equalseal EQ FG P (All Steam Piping shall be this type.) 18. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 19. Purified Water System Equipment (Reverse Osmosis and Deionized Systems) RO/RODI piping shall be reviewed on a case by case basis. Manhattan main campus utilizes SS (up to and including 1.5”) and CPVC (above 1.5”) piping. Utilize digital mixing valves for reverse osmosis systems. Central RO systems shall be provided with fully redundant systems including redundant storage tanks, UV lamps, recirculation pumps, membranes, etc. Approved Manufacturers: a. Hydro (except for dialysis) b. Evoqua c. I Pure 20. Safety Showers/Eyewashes Eyewash stations shall be manual hand type. Showers shall be ball valve pull type. Approved Manufacturers: a. Guardian Equipment b. WaterSaver Faucet Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 475 2024 21. Seismic Restraints Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Tolco 22. Sump Pumps and Ejectors Pumps shall be provided with hoisting capabilities within area of equipment. There shall be a hook in the ceiling slab or rail system. Switches, thermometers, meters, gauges and other components shall be mercury free in compliance with NYU Langone Health’s Mercury Elimination Program. Approved Manufacturers: a. Flygt b. Tsunami c. Gorman Rupp 23. System Identification Refer to Mechanical system identification for requirements 24. Vacuum Pumps Vacuum exhaust terminations shall be provided with a muffler. Approved Manufacturers: a. Beacon Medaes Camel type 25. Valves Dielectric nipples shall be installed between dissimilar metals (dielectric unions are not allowed) . See Engineering Dos and Don’ts section for typical material installs of where dielectric shall be placed. All mixing valves shall be installed with check valves on the hot and cold water lines. Ball valves must be used for manual isolation on all domestic hot and cold water systems. Butterfly valves shall be reviewed by Facilities Operations. Gate valves are not permitted unless specifically required by codes or DEP. All valves used in plumbing systems shall close bubble tight and be suitable for dead end service designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves located more than 7 feet above the finished floor, shall be provided with a chain wheel for operation from the floor. All fire protection valves installed 7 feet above floor or stair landing shall be provided with chain wheels and shall be padlocked securely in place. All valves 4” and larger shall be stainless steel or all hot and cold water. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 476 2024 Ball valves shall be installed on piping up to 3” in size. Butterfly valves shall be installed on piping 4” and above. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ball Valves 1) Apollo 2) Nibco b. Butterfly Valves 1) Apollo c. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each pressurized water vessel and as required by Code. Relief valves shall meet the maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment for which it is installed. Relief valve piping shall be full sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to the floor. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Febco 3) Watts 4) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 5) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) d. Point of use Mixing Valves 1) Leonard 2) Powers 3) Holby 4) Watts e. Master Mixing Stations / Valves Pressure and temperature gauges shall be provided downstream of mixing valve. 1) Holby 26. Water Supply Pumps All pumps shall be provided with premium efficiency motors. Pumps shall not be provided with triple duty valves unless install restrictions require such an install. If triple duty valves are required, they shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Butterfly valves shall not be used on the pump suction. Piping and pumps shall be independently supported. All piping within 50 feet of pump shall be supported with hangers having spring type isolators. Install pumps in such a way to allow periodic maintenance, which includes removal of motors, impellers and couplings. Pumps are required to be able to be drained down. Bearings shall have a life grade of L5 with a minimum of 50,000 hours. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PLUMBING Real Estate Development and Facilities 477 2024 Provide hoist type access for maintenance purposes. Pumps shall be multi stage and a minimum of duplex design. Approved Manufacturers: a. Armstrong b. Aurora c. Bell & Gossett d. Gould e. Peerless f. Weinman g. US Pump Corp END OF PLUMBING SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 478 2024 5. FIRE PROTECTION A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Fire Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, NFPA, current NYULH insurance underwriter requirements and all other applicable Codes. Architectural and Engineering construction drawings shall specifically state that fire protection systems (standpipe, sprinkler and fire alarm/detection systems) and construction partitions during construction shall comply with the following: All projects: • The contractor shall provide the required fire watch for the duration of any fire protection system or rated construction partition impairment. • NYULH safety policy 120 Construction Safety Requirements • NFPA 13 Standard for the Installation of Sprinkler Systems • NFPA 72 National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code Projects in New York City: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction or Demolition • Department of Buildings Technical Bulletin 2017 009 (or superseding bulletin) • Fire Code Chapter 14 Fire Safety during Construction, Alteration and Demolition Projects in New York State: • Building Code Chapter 33 Safeguards during Construction • Fire Code Chapter 33 Fire Safety during Construction and Demolition Healthcare and Ambulatory Care occupancies: • NFPA 101 Life Safety Code • NFPA 241 Standard for Safeguarding Construction, Alteration and Demolition Operations B. Design Criteria I. Buildouts shall be provided with full sprinkler protection and sprinkler systems shall be hydraulically calculated in accordance with the current Local Building Code and Local Fire Department requirements. II. Fire department standpipe connections shall be provided with a 2 1/2 fire hose valve and hose rack on every landing of every required stairway. III. Areas without ceilings (storage, mechanical spaces, etc.) shall utilize upright sprinkler heads. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 479 2024 IV. Areas with suspended ceilings (back of house areas, bathrooms, offices, etc.) shall utilize concealed sprinkler heads. V. Areas subject to freezing shall utilize a dry pipe sprinkler system with upright sprinkler heads. VI. Fuel Oil storage rooms shall be protected with a wet type fluorine free foam sprinkler system or as reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. VII. New and retro fitted sprinkler systems shall have at least a 1 1/2” valve connection for draining. VIII. Electrical Closets shall be provided with wet side wall sprinkler heads each with protective cages. IX. Elevator machine rooms that fall under DOH jurisdiction shall be protected by alternate means of fire suppression. This shall apply to new construction or major overhaul. X. System types (wet, dry, preaction, foam, alternatives) must be reviewed with NYU Langone project managers and also with Facilities Operations during design development. XI. Pre Action systems shall be installed in X Ray, Gamma Knife, LINAC and any other similar sensitive equipment rooms. All pre action valves shall be located on the same level as the floor they are serving. XII. Flexible sprinkler connections are allowed to be used in non New York City projects where applicable by code. Hoses shall be braided stainless steel with proper pressure rating. The flexible sprinkler connection shall be used in conjunction with an approved manufacturer ceiling mounting bracket. Mounting brackets shall be attached to a ceiling’s main tee bar support and not cross support rail members. Care shall be taken to prevent unnecessary movement which can dislodge ceiling mounting bracket when sprinkler is discharging. This may include supporting flexible sprinkler connection to building structure independent of the ceiling suspension and support system. XIII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. XIV. Specify “Stat X” for article 28 elevator machine rooms in article 28 spaces in NYC. XV. Side wall sprinkler heads are preferred in IDF and BDF technology rooms. XVI. Avoid trapping sprinkler piping. Review auxiliary drain locations on shop drawings with NYULH. When required, locate drains in accessible areas and route drain piping to an approved spill location. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 480 2024 XVII. Piping shall be painted per building codes. Piping up to flow control assemblies shall be painted red. XVIII. All sprinkler piping shall be black steel pipe. C. Equipment 1. Pipe Hangers and Supports All exposed threaded rods shall be capped with an orange protective cap either rubber or plastic. All threaded rods shall be cut down to an inch of final nut rods shall not be left at full length for safety reasons. All components shall be galvanized or red oxide coated. 2. Preaction Control Panel/Equipment Pre action systems shall be addressable. Approved Manufacturers: a. Simplex b. Notifier c. Kidde Fire Systems 3. Preaction/Dry Pipe Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Reliable b. Viking c. Victaulic 4. Pressure Reducing Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Cla Val b. Watts 5. Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. Fire Pump Controllers 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Joslyn Clark 3) Hubbell (mercury free options) b. Fire Pump Controller Automatic Transfer Switch 1) ASCO/Firetrol 2) Eaton 3) Russelectric NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 481 2024 c. Fire Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Patterson 3) Peerless d. Jockey Pumps 1) Aurora 2) Groundfos 3) Peerless 6. Standpipe System Equipment (Siamese, fire hose valves, fire hose cabinets, and racks, etc.) Approved Manufacturers: a. Badger Powhattan b. Croker c. Elkhart d. Potter Roemer 7. Sprinkler Heads, Valves, Alarms, Etc. Approved Manufacturers: a. Grinnell b. Reliable c. Viking 8. System Identification Equipment Labels shall be high quality stickers. Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded per ASME A13.1). Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 in diameter, brass, aluminum or stainless steel with letters 2in in height. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Specify in specifications to post laminated valve tag schedules in space. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE PROTECTION Real Estate Development and Facilities 482 2024 9. Tamper Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Acme b. Grinnell c. Potter (mercury free options) d. System Sensor (mercury free options) e. Viking 10. Valves Approved Manufacturers: a. Butterfly Valves 1) Grinnell 2) Jamesbury 3) Jenkins 4) NIBCO 5) Victaulic b. Check Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Kennedy 4) Mueller 5) NIBCO 6) Victaulic c. Gate Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Jenkins 4) Kennedy 5) NIBCO 6) Walworth 11. Water Flow Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. Potter Electric Signal Company (mercury free options) b. System Sensor 12. Water Proof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Thunderline Corp. “Link Seal” END OF FIRE PROTECTION SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 483 2024 6. FIRE ALARM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Local Fire Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, NFPA, and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. The following buildings at the Manhattan main campus have their separate respective EST3 fire alarm systems: a. Tisch Hospital b. Smilow Research Center c. Medical Science Building/Alumni Hall and Coles d. Schwartz Health Care Center e. 660 First Avenue f. 545 First Avenue II. All audibles and strobes shall be synced. III. Chimes shall be installed in all sensitive areas in lieu of tones/horns. Sensitive areas include Operating Rooms, NICU, Anesthesiology, and Pre Surgical. Contact Facilities Operations prior to designing in sensitive areas. Contractor shall obtain waiver if chimes are used in lieu of tones/horns. IV. For Operating Rooms: a. During a detected fire/smoke alarm, only the fan/unit serving the Operating Room which the alarm was generated at shall shut down. All other operating room fans shall stay operational. In NYC, for central AHU systems a variance is required to be filed with the FDNY and DOB and shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. V. Newly installed smoke heads shall stay covered until completion of project. No more that dirty heads shall be accepted upon project completion. VI. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. C. Equipment 1. Fire Alarm System Approved Manufacturers (no substitutes): a. Edwards EST4 (Manhattan Superblock) b. (Brooklyn Campus) Contact Brooklyn Facilities c. (Long Island Campus) Contact Long Island Facilities d. Contact Real Estate & Housing Group for all off site locations for manufacturer NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FIRE ALARM Real Estate Development and Facilities 484 2024 2. Heat Detectors Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA2 HFS 3. Strobe/Speaker Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSPSTR Series 4. Strobe/Horn Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LHSR Series 5. Strobe Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Wheelock LSTR Series 6. Smoke Detector Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA OSD 7. Duct Detector Above ceiling devices shall have separate LED indication and test buttons with magnetic test switch. Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST SIGA SDH 8. Manual Pull Station Approved Manufacturers (applies to Manhattan superblock campus; no substitutes): a. Edwards EST 270 Series 9. Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems Aspirating Smoke Detection Systems shall be installed in all Mechanical and Electrical rooms that have ceilings above 10 feet or where conduits/ductwork/equipment/etc. will prevent maintenance of smoke detector heads. Approved Manufacturers: a. VESDA END OF FIRE ALARM SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 485 2024 7. BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the Local Building Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards, and all other applicable Codes. B. General Requirements i. General • For renovation work in existing buildings, the existing manufacturer shall be used. For example, the Kimmel Pavilion in the Main Campus is served by an Automated Logic Corporation system. Any modifications to the existing control system shall utilize Automated Logic Corporation controllers. • All controllers, sensors, field devices, etc., shall be UL listed. Control units shall be listed for UL 916 Energy Management Equipment. • Design engineer shall provide a Network Riser as part of their design documentation. The Design Engineer shall not rely on the BMS contractor to create this. • Ensure BMS sequences of operation align with control sensors indicated on single line drawings. • AHU control devices shall be located outside of the airstream. Do not mount inside unit. • All new BAS installations shall utilize IP based local controllers. • For all systems that leverage both water and air to maintain climate control, always use water to achieve setpoints prior to additional use of air beyond minimum. o Minimum airflow shall be determined by ventilation and/or pressurization requirements. ii. IP/IT Security • For details on policy for IP/IT security, reference the NYU Langone Health Critical Infrastructure Operational Technology (CIOT) Vendor Managed Device Standard. iii. BMS Governance for Locations Not Owned by NYULH For NYULH locations not owned by NYULH (landlord locations): • Equipment owned and operated by NYULH shall be connected to the NYULH BMS. If an NYULH BMS does not exist, it shall be installed. • Equipment owned and operated by the landlord shall remain on the landlord's BMS. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 486 2024 • Under no circumstances shall a project connect NYULH maintained equipment to an existing landlord BMS network. iv. BMS Mock Up/Factory Acceptance/Witness Test • Provide a mockup of select components and features of the building management system (BMS) during the early stages of construction. The BMS mock up shall be constructed at controls contractor facility. • The BMS mock up shall include the following hardware components: a. Server b. Workstation c. Partial local area network d. Select BACnet local area network to support the DDC unit and unitary controllers e. DDC units, mounted in the final panel enclosures, serving the following systems: i. Each type of air handling system. ii. Each different configuration of Flow Tracking Variable Air Volume Terminal Units iii. Each different configuration of supply air terminal units with modulating return air dampers. iv. Each water system • Provide a software based input/output point operational simulator to