Executive Summary NYU Langone Hospitals is submitting this Full Review Construction Certificate of Need application for the creation of an Ambulatory Surgery Center for orthopedic services in Westchester County at 4 Westchester Park Drive, West Harrison NY 10604. The addition of a freestanding ambulatory surgery center in Westchester County will enable patients who reside in or closer to Westchester to access orthopedic services closer to home. Currently, NYULH patients residing in Westchester and as well as some patients outside the service area must travel to Manhattan for orthopedic services, which creates time and cost burdens for patients. Traveling to and within Manhattan is burdensome for all patients and there are some medically underserved groups who face the greatest burdens from traveling to Manhattan. Once the project is complete, patients will still receive care from their same providers closer to home. The current facility is a multi tenant Business Occupancy building with 5 floors. The new program will be a New Ambulatory Healthcare Occupancy and will be shared on the same floor with another tenant which is a Business Occupancy Daycare. The area where the proposed New Ambulatory Surgery Center is currently unoccupied and demolished. The site has parking surrounding the entire building with an abundance of accessible parking spaces. The project will include an NYULH dedicated waiting room with ADA toilet, pre and post procedure/recovery area which will include 12 universal bays, a multi purpose room that can be used as exam/consult room, 4 operating rooms with a combined sterile/supply core, on site Sterile Processing, and all the required clinical patient and support spaces. The construction of the project will be completed in one phase. Please note that the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY) will conduct the architectural review of this project. DOH 155 B Schedule 5 Cover (06/2020) Schedule 5 Working Capital Plan Contents: o Schedule 5 Working Capital Plan New York State Department of Health Schedule 5 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 5 1 (06/2020) Working Capital Financing Plan 1. Working Capital Financing Plan and Pro Forma Balance Sheet: This section should be completed in conjunction with the monthly Cash Flow. The general guidelines for working capital requirements are two months of first year expenses for changes of ownership and two months' of third year expenses for new establishments, construction projects or when the first year budget indicates a net operating loss. Any deviation from these guidelines must be supported by the monthly cash flow analysis. If working capital is required for the project, all sources of working capital must be indicated clearly. Borrowed funds are limited to of total working capital requirements and cannot be a line of credit. Terms of the borrowing cannot be longer than 5 years or less than 1 year. If borrowed funds are a source of working capital, please summarize the terms below, and attach a letter of interest from the intended source of funds, to include an estimate of the principal, term, interest rate and payout period being considered. Also, describe and document the source(s) of working capital equity. Titles of Attachments Related to Borrowed Funds Filenames of Attachments Example: First borrowed fund source Example: first_bor_fund.pdf In the section below, briefly describe and document the source(s) of working capital equity To the extent that working capital is required, it will be funded from operations. Please see Attachment 1 NYU Langone Hospitals Consolidated Financial Statement. New York State Department of Health Schedule 5 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 5 2 (06/2020) 2. Pro Forma Balance Sheet This section should be completed for all new establishment and change in ownership applications. On a separate attachment identified below, provide a pro forma (opening day) balance sheet. If the operation and real estate are to be owned by separate entities, provide a pro forma balance sheet for each entity. Fully identify all assumptions used in preparation of the pro forma balance sheet. If the pro forma balance sheet(s) is submitted in conjunction with a change in ownership application, on a line by line basis, provide a comparison between the submitted pro forma balance sheet(s), the most recently available facility certified financial statements and the transfer agreement. Fully explain and document all assumptions. Titles of Attachments Related to Pro Forma Balance Sheets Filenames of Attachments Example: Attachment to operational balance sheet Example: Operational_bal_sheet.pdf DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (9/6/2022) Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission Contents: o Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 1 (9/6/2022) Architectural Submission Requirements for Contingent Approval and Contingency Satisfaction Schedule applies to all projects with construction, including Articles 28 & 40, i.e., Hospitals, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers, Residential Health Care Facilities, and Hospices. Instructions • Provide Architectural/Engineering Narrative using the format below. • Provide Architect/Engineer Certification form: o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation for Projects That Will Be Self Certified. Self Certification Is Not an Option for Projects over $15 Million, or Projects Requiring a Waiver (PDF) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation Projects to Be Reviewed by DOH or DASNY. (PDF) (Not to Be Submitted with Self Certification Projects) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Completed Projects (PDF) o Architect's or Engineer's Letter of Certification for Inspecting Existing Buildings (PDF) • Provide FEMA BFE Certificate. Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes. o FEMA Elevation Certificate and Instructions.pdf • Provide Functional Space Program: A list that enumerates project spaces by floor indicating size by gross floor area and clear floor area for the patient and resident spaces. • For projects with imaging services, provide Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Physicist’s Report including drawings, details and supporting information at the design development phase. o Physicist's Letter of Certification (PDF) • Provide Architecture/Engineering Drawings in PDF format created from the original electronic files; scans from printed drawings will not be accepted. Drawing files less than 100 MB, and of the same trade, may be uploaded as one file. o NYSDOH and DASNY Electronic Drawing Submission Guidance for CON Reviews o DSG 1.0 Schematic Design & Design Development Submission Requirements • Refer to the Required Attachment Table below for the Schematic Design Submission requirements for Contingent Approval and the Design Development Submission requirements for Contingency Satisfaction. o Attachments must be labeled accordingly when uploading in NYSE CON. o Do not combine the Narrative, Architectural/Engineering Certification form and FEMA BFE Certificate into one document. o If submitted documents require revisions, provide an updated Schedule 6 with the revised information and date within the narrative. Architecture/Engineering Narrative Narrative shall include but not limited to the following information. Please address all items in the narrative including items located in the response column. Incomplete responses will not be accepted. Project Description Schedule 6 submission date: NEXT MEETING IS NOVEMBER OR JANUARY FOR REVIEW REVIEW TIMELINES 9/30/2024 Revised Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Does this project amend or supersede prior CON approvals or a pending application? No If so, what is the original CON number? Intent/Purpose: The purpose of this project is to provide Ambulatory Surgery services to NYULH patients that live in the Westchester/White Plains/Town of Harrison. These patients typically travel to NYULH in Manhattan to receive Ambulatory Surgical care. Having a location closer to home makes it easier for them to access the New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 2 (9/6/2022) medical services they need. Many of the patients being treated in this area are elderly and by providing this care closer to their home, it will allow them to spend less time, money and other burdens to receive care. Ultimately making their quality of life and care better. This project also will allow for more of the population living in the surrounding area, who are not currently patients of NYULH, to have access to quality outpatient surgical services and allow NYULH’s outreach to expand. The proposed project is to turn a portion of the Ground level at 4 Westchester Park Drive into an Ambulatory Surgery Center. The space is currently vacant and demolished. The program will provide an NYULH dedicated waiting room with ADA toilet, 12 universal pre and post procedure/recovery bays, 4 Operating rooms, on site Sterile Processing, and all the required clinical, staff and patient support spaces. The expected construction completion in 2026. Site Location: The project is located at 4 Westchester Park Drive, White Plains NY, 10604 Brief description of current facility, including facility type: The current facility is a multi tenant Business Occupancy building with 5 floors. The Ground Level, where the NYULH Orthopedic Ambulatory Surgery Center will be located shared with one other tenant which is a Business Occupancy Daycare. The area where the New Ambulatory Surgery Center will be located is currently unoccupied and demolished. The site has parking surrounding the entire building with an abundance of accessible parking spaces directly at the front entry of the building. The front entry also has a curb cut/drop off area with a fire lane that will allow for the arrival of an ambulance in the event of an emergency. Brief description of proposed facility: The new program is for an Ambulatory Surgery Center on the Ground Level on the proposed building. The current space is vacant and demolished. The project will include an NYULH dedicated waiting room with ADA toilet, pre and post procedure/recovery are will include 12 universal bays, a multipurpose room that can be used as an exam/consult room, 4 operating rooms with a combined sterile/supply core, on site Sterile Processing, and all the required clinical, patient and staff support spaces. Patients & Staff will arrive through the main entry to the site into a parking area surrounding the building, where they can park or be dropped off at the main entry on the Ground Level. Once within the main lobby on the building, NYULH patients will have access to a separate NYULH dedicated waiting and reception area. Staff arrival will be through the same main Ground Level lobby or through an entry on Level 1Once within the building there are various secure access points for staff to gain access into the clinical spaces. Deliveries will be directed to a receiving/breakdown room on the west side of the building. The project will be completed in one phase. Since the current space is vacant and demolished there is minimal demolition scope to accommodate the proposed plan. The project will require modifications and supplementation of existing HVAC with additional systems to meet code required ventilation requirements. Electrical (NP and EP), Plumbing and Fire Protection systems are sufficient for the new project. All finishes will reflect NYULH Guidelines. Location of proposed project space(s) within the building. Note occupancy type for each occupied space. Ground Level: NYULH ASC New Ambulatory Healthcare Other Tenant Business Occupancy Level 01: Business Occupancy New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 3 (9/6/2022) Level 02: Business Occupancy Level 03: Business Occupancy Level 04: Business Occupancy Indicate if mixed occupancies, multiple occupancies and or separated occupancies. Describe the required smoke and fire separations between occupancies: Not AppliNew ambulatory healthcare is divided into 2 smoke compartments, which are 1hr smoke barrier and public corridor including the parameter of other tenant is 1hr fire rated.cable If this is an existing facility, is it currently a licensed Article 28 facility? No Is the project space being converted from a non Article 28 space to an Article 28 space? Yes Relationship of spaces conforming with Article 28 space and non Article 28 space: New construction of article 28 space List exceptions to the NYSDOH referenced standards. If requesting an exception, note each on the Architecture/Engineering Certification form under item #3. Click here to enter text. Does the project involve heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, water supply, and fire protection systems that involve modification or alteration of clinical space, services or equipment such as operating rooms, treatment, procedure rooms, and intensive care, cardiac care , other special care units (such as airborne infection isolation rooms and protective environment rooms), laboratories and special procedure rooms, patient or resident rooms and or other spaces used by residents of residential health care facilities on a daily basis? If so, please describe below. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Provide brief description of the existing building systems within the proposed space and overall building systems, including HVAC systems, electrical, plumbing, etc. HVAC System The building is equipped with central air handling unit on mechanical penthouse on roof level, provides heating, cooling and ventilation air requirement for all floors via central sheet metal supply duct risers and return air shaft. Each floor is equipped with terminal units and sheet metal air distribution ductwork and supply air diffusers. The central air handling unit is equipped with split type of DX coil and hot water coil. The air cooled condenser is located outdoor roof level. The heating system consists of gas fired hot water boiler plant on mechanical penthouse, provide heating requirement for the building via hot water distribution loop, including fin tube radiation devices along the building perimeter spaces. Electrical System The building is supplied with a 277/480V, 3 phase electric services from utility company which is terminated to 277/480V switchboards located in the main electrical room on the 1st floor level. One of the services, only serve the existing rooftop unit. Distribution panels are installed throughout the building which are fed from the switchboard. These distribution panels feed several lighting and appliance panels throughout. There are tenants in the building that taps the same service on which they have been provided with their own utility meter separate from the building electric meter. The building has an existing fire alarm system and fire alarm devices are installed throughout the building. The proposed space has normal power which are composed of several panels in the space. There are two (2) existing automatic transfer switches (ATSs) installed by the previous tenant. These ATSs are fed from the building main switchboard and emergency feeds are coming from the existing outdoor generator. Each ATS feed a panel for the previous tenant. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 4 (9/6/2022) Plumbing System The building is supplied by (1) 4” domestic water service, which enters the building within the proposed space. Domestic water distributes on the Ground Floor, including within the proposed space, and connects to several base building and tenant water risers. There is an existing water to water heat exchanger located in the Boiler Room which generates domestic hot water for the core restrooms only, outside the proposed space. The building has (1) 6” sanitary sewer, which exits the building within the proposed space. There are several sanitary and vent stacks available for connection within our space. Several storm leaders connected to the building roof drains are located at the wet columns within our space. The building is supplied by (1) 2” high pressure gas service, which enters the west side of the building from the parking lot. Upon entering the building, the gas service increases to 4” and distributes within our space to various equipment within the building. Fire Protection System The building is supplied by (1) 6” fire service, which enters the southeast corner of the building within the proposed space. Upon entering the building, it tees to the fire department connection located at the building exterior wall adjacent to our space, which serves as the secondary water supply for the building. The 6” main distributes to the combined sprinkler and standpipe risers, located in each Stair. Each riser is equipped with a 2½” fire hose valve for fire department connection. The sprinkler system is equipped with a 2½” control valve with a water flow and tamper switch. There is no fire pump within the building. Describe scope of work involved in building system upgrades and or replacements, HVAC systems, electrical, Sprinkler, etc. HVAC System The existing HVAC system within the project area will be removed at is entirety and new, separate, stand alone HVAC system will be provided to support the proposed function of the space. New air handling units will be provided, located outdoor on grade level, provides heating, cooling, ventilation, humidification, dehumidification and filtration requirement for OR suites. The OR units will be equipped with cooling coil, heating coil, prefilter, return fans, supply fans, humidifier, final filters. Air distribution system consists of sheet metal ductwork, terminal units, return terminal units, low return and HEPA filters on laminar flow supply diffuser. Dedicated outside air unit will be provided and located on roof level, will provide ventilation air requirement for the project area via dedicated sheet metal duct riser. The new air handling units will be provided to support patient prep / recovery area, will be located outdoor on grade level, provides heating, cooling, ventilation air requirement for the space. The sheet metal air distribution system shall be provided from outdoor air handling units to space with terminal units. The new roof top equipment shall be provided to support central sterile department, the unit will be capable of delivering outside air to the area via sheet metal duct risers. The unit will be equipped with Dx cooling coil, gas fire heating coil, prefilter, supply fan, humidifier and final filter. The heat rejection and injection requirement will be provided by new air cooled heat pump type chiller / heater. The unit will be located on roof level, shall provide heating and cooling requirement for the project, via dedicated chilled water and hot water distribution system. Exhaust fan shall be provided for toilet, EVS rooms, med gas manifold room and decontamination area. Inline type of exhaust fans will be utilized and will be located at the discharge louvers on ground level. Electrical System The existing electrical system infrastructure (normal and emergency power) within the project will be removed at its entirety. A new electrical infrastructure will be installed. The existing outdoor emergency generator will be evaluated to determine if it can be used for this project. A new generator will be installed if the existing generator is no longer reliable or undersize for this project. New distribution panels, automatic New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 5 (9/6/2022) transfer switches (ATSs) and lighting/appliance panels will be installed. A minimum of three (3) automatic transfer switches (life safety, critical and equipment branch) will be installed to comply with Type 1 EES. A new nurse call system will be installed. New devices will be installed where required to comply with FGI. Plumbing System The proposed space will be supplied from the building’s 4” domestic water service. Hot water will be generated by duplex domestic water heaters, either gas fired or electric depending upon service availability. New domestic cold water, hot water, and hot water recirculation piping will distribute within the proposed space, connected to plumbing fixtures and equipment. New sanitary piping will be provided below the slab (underground), connected to the building sanitary system. Existing sanitary piping connected to fixtures on the floor above will be relocated as needed to coordinate with new work in the ceiling of the proposed space. New vent piping will be provided, connected to the building vent system. New gas piping will be provided, connected to new mechanical and plumbing equipment dedicated to our space. This equipment will likely be located at the building roof. Gas service upgrades will be provided if required by the gas utility company. New medical gas systems will be provided for the operating rooms and prep/recovery beds. The following systems are anticipated: oxygen, medical air, medical vacuum. Other positive pressure medical gas and support gas systems may be provided, including but not limited to the following: nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen/instrument air. Source equipment will be provided as follows: medical air compressor, medical vacuum pump, liquid oxygen manifold, high pressure manifolds for nitrous oxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, instrument air compressor. Medical air compressors and vacuum pumps will be located on the building roof. Manifolds will be located in a dedicated manifold room located within the proposed space, directly accessible from outside. All medical gas systems will comply with NFPA 99 requirements. Fire Protection System The proposed space will be fully sprinklered, connected to the existing 2½” floor control valve assembly located at the stair. New sprinkler mains, branch piping, and sprinkler heads will be provided within the proposed. Space. Auxiliary fire hose valve connections are not anticipated but will be provided if the new architectural program inhibits existing hose coverage on the floor. Describe existing and or new work for fire detection, alarm, and communication systems: New fire alarm devices (smoke detectors, duct smoke detectors, audio/visual devices, pull station, control modules and etc.) will be installed throughout the project. These new devices will be connected to the existing fire alarm system in the building. Modification to existing fire alarm system may be required to accommodate the new devices. If a hospital or nursing home located in a flood zone, provide a FEMA BFE Certificate from www.fema.gov, and describe the work to mitigate damage and maintain operations during a flood event. Not Applicable Does the project contain imaging equipment used for diagnostic or treatment purposes? If yes, describe the equipment to be provided and or replaced. Ensure physicist’s letter of certification and report are submitted. Yes, the project will include mobile C arms to be used during surgery. Does the project comply with ADA? If no, list all areas of noncompliance. Yes, Complies Click here to enter text. Other pertinent information: Click here to enter text. Project Work Area Response Type of Work Renovation Square footages of existing areas, existing floor and or existing building. Total Ground floor Area: 21,000 SF 15,071 SF New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 6 (9/6/2022) Other tenant space: 2,336 SF Shared Space: 3,593 SF NYULH ASC Space:15,071 SF Square footages of the proposed work area or areas. Provide the aggregate sum of the work areas. 15,071 SF Does the work area exceed more than of the smoke compartment, floor or building? Exceeds of the floor Sprinkler protection per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Sprinklered throughout Construction Type per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code and NFPA 220 Type II (222) Building Height 55.5’ Building Number of Stories 5 Stories Which edition of FGI is being used for this project? 2018 Edition of FGI Is the proposed work area located in a basement or underground building? Grade Level Is the proposed work area within a windowless space or building? No Is the building a high rise? No If a high rise, does the building have a generator? Not Applicable What is the Occupancy Classification per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code? Chapter 20 New Ambulatory Health Care Occupancy Are there other occupancy classifications that are adjacent to or within this facility? If yes, what are the occupancies and identify these on the plans. Ground Level: NYULH ASC Ambulatory Healthcare Other Tenant Business Occupancy Level 01: Business Occupancy Level 02: Business Occupancy Level 03: Business Occupancy Level 04: Business Occupancy Yes Will the project construction be phased? If yes, how many phases and what is the duration for each phase? Click here to enter text. Not ApplicableNoNo Does the project contain shell space? If yes, describe proposed shell space and identify Article 28 and non Article 28 shell space on the plans. Click here to enter text. Not ApplicableNoNo Will spaces be temporarily relocated during the construction of this project? If yes, where will the temporary space be? Click here to enter text. Not ApplicableNoNo Does the temporary space meet the current DOH referenced standards? If no, describe in detail how the space does not comply. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Is there a companion CON associated with the project or temporary space? If so, provide the associated CON number. Click here to enter text. Not ApplicableNoNo Will spaces be permanently relocated to allow the construction of this project? If yes, where will this space be? Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Changes in bed capacity? If yes, enumerate the existing and proposed bed capacities. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Formatted: Not HighlightFormatted: Font color: Auto, Not HighlightNew York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 7 (9/6/2022) Changes in the number of occupants? If yes, what is the new number of occupants? Click here to enter text. Yes Does the facility have an Essential Electrical System (EES)? If yes, which EES Type? Click here to enter text. No If an existing EES Type 1, does it meet NFPA 99 2012 standards? Not Applicable Does the existing EES system have the capacity for the additional electrical loads? Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Does the project involve Operating Room alterations, renovations, or rehabilitation? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Does the project involve Bulk Oxygen Systems? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable If existing, does the Bulk Oxygen System have the capacity for additional loads without bringing in additional supplemental systems? Not Applicable Does the project involve a pool? Not Applicable New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 8 (9/6/2022) REQUIRED ATTACHMENT TABLE SCHEMATIC DESIGN SUBMISSION for CONTINGENT APPROVAL DESIGN DEVELOPMENT SUBMISSION (State Hospital Code Submission) for CONTINGENCY SATISFACTION Title of Attachment File Name in PDF format ● Architectural/Engineering Narrative A/E Narrative.PDF ● Functional Space Program FSP.PDF ● Architect/Engineer Certification Form A/E Cert Form. PDF ● FEMA BFE Certificate FEMA BFE Cert.PDF ● Article 28 Space/Non Article 28 Space Plans CON100.PDF ● ● Site Plans SP100.PDF ● ● Life Safety Plans including level of exit discharge, and NFPA 101 2012 Code Analysis LSC100.PDF ● ● Architectural Floor Plans, Roof Plans and Details. Illustrate FGI compliance on plans. A100.PDF ● ● Exterior Elevations and Building Sections A200.PDF ● ● Vertical Circulation A300.PDF ● ● Reflected Ceiling Plans A400.PDF optional ● Wall Sections and Partition Types A500.PDF optional ● Interior Elevations, Enlarged Plans and Details A600.PDF ● Fire Protection FP100.PDF ● Mechanical Systems M100.PDF ● Electrical Systems E100.PDF ● Plumbing Systems P100.PDF ● Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Report X100.PDF DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 1 (Revised 11/2018) Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 CON Forms Regarding Environmental issues Contents: Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 Environmental Assessment DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 2 (Revised 11/2018) Environmental Assessment Part I. The following questions help determine whether the project is "significant" from an environmental standpoint. Yes No 1.1 If this application involves establishment, will it involve more than a change of name or ownership only, or a transfer of stock or partnership or membership interests only, or the conversion of existing beds to the same or lesser number of a different level of care beds? 1.2 Does this plan involve construction and change land use or density? 1.3 Does this plan involve construction and have a permanent effect on the environment if temporary land use is involved? 1.4 Does this plan involve construction and require work related to the disposition of asbestos? Part II. If any question in Part I is answered “yes” the project may be significant, and Part II must be completed. If all questions in Part II are answered “no” it is likely that the project is not significant Yes No 2.1 Does the project involve physical alteration of ten acres or more? 2.2 If an expansion of an existing facility, is the area physically altered by the facility expanding by more than and is the total existing and proposed altered area ten acres or more? 2.3 Will the project involve use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater to ground or surface water in excess of 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.4 If an expansion of an existing facility, will use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater by the facility increase by more than and exceed 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.5 Will the project involve parking for 1,000 vehicles or more? 2.6 If an expansion of an existing facility, will the project involve a or greater increase in parking spaces and will total parking exceed 1000 vehicles? 2.7 In a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project entail more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.8 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 100,000 square feet? 2.9 In a city, town or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project entail more than 240,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.10 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 240,000 square feet? 2.11 In a locality without any zoning regulation about height, will the project contain any structure exceeding 100 feet above the original ground area? 2.12 Is the project wholly or partially within an agricultural district certified pursuant to Agriculture and Markets Law Article 25, Section 303? 2.13 Will the project significantly affect drainage flow on adjacent sites? DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 3 (Revised 11/2018) 2.14 Will the project affect any threatened or endangered plants or animal species? 2.15 Will the project result in a major adverse effect on air quality? 2.16 Will the project have a major effect on visual character of the community or scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community? 2.17 Will the project result in major traffic problems or have a major effect on existing transportation systems? 2.18 Will the project regularly cause objectionable odors, noise, glare, vibration, or electrical disturbance as a result of the project's operation? 2.19 Will the project have any adverse impact on health or safety? 2.20 Will the project affect the existing community by directly causing a growth in permanent population of more than five percent over a one year period or have a major negative effect on the character of the community or neighborhood? 2.21 Is the project wholly or partially within, or is it contiguous to any facility or site listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or any historic building, structure, or site, or prehistoric site, that has been proposed by the Committee on the Registers for consideration by the New York State Board on Historic Preservation for recommendation to the State Historic Officer for nomination for inclusion in said National Register? 2.22 Will the project cause a beneficial or adverse effect on property listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places or on property which is determined to be eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places by the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation? 2.23 Is this project within the Coastal Zone as defined in Executive Law, Article 42? If Yes, please complete Part IV. Part III. Yes No 3.1 Are there any other state or local agencies involved in approval of the project? If so, fill in Contact Information to Question 3.1 below. Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 4 (Revised 11/2018) Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.2 Has any other agency made an environmental review of this project? If so, give name, and submit the SEQRA Summary of Findings with the application in the space provided below. Yes No Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.3 Is there a public controversy concerning environmental aspects of this project? If yes, briefly describe the controversy in the space below. Yes No Part IV. Storm and Flood Mitigation Definitions of FEMA Flood Zone Designations Flood zones are geographic areas that the FEMA has defined according to varying levels of flood risk. These zones are depicted on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map. Each zone reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area. Please use the FEMA Flood Designations scale below as a guide to answering all Part IV questions regardless of project location, flood and or evacuation zone. Yes No 4.1 Is the proposed site located in a flood plain? If Yes, indicate classification below and provide the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance). Moderate to Low Risk Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, flood insurance is available to all property owners and renters in these zones: B and X Area of moderate flood hazard, usually the area between the limits of the 100 year and 500 year floods. Are also used to designate base floodplains of lesser hazards, such as areas protected by levees from 100 year flood, or shallow flooding areas with average depths of less than one foot or drainage areas less than 1 square mile. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 5 (Revised 11/2018) C and X Area of minimal flood hazard, usually depicted on FIRMs as above the 500 year flood level. High Risk Areas Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: A Areas with a annual chance of flooding and a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Because detailed analyses are not performed for such areas; no depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. AE The base floodplain where base flood elevations are provided. AE Zones are now used on new format FIRMs instead of A1 A30. A1 30 These are known as numbered A Zones (e.g., A7 or A14). This is the base floodplain where the FIRM shows a BFE (old format). AH Areas with a annual chance of shallow flooding, usually in the form of a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. AO River or stream flood hazard areas, and areas with a or greater chance of shallow flooding each year, usually in the form of sheet flow, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Average flood depths derived from detailed analyses are shown within these zones. AR Areas with a temporarily increased flood risk due to the building or restoration of a flood control system