RT 2 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Thickness: Nora Nora Environcare Lace Vine 2945 24” x 24” 2 mm thick NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 46 2024 BASE WALL BASE RB 1 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Johnsonite Tightlock Cove Base, Resilient Floors Pewter, 38 WALLS WALL TILE TILE 2 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Grout: Size: Nemo Tile Embarcadero Porcelain Mission Beige Laticrete Spectralock Pro, 23 Antique White 12” x 24” WALL COVERING WC 01 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Carnegie Xorel Strie W, 6423W Color 136 Width: 52” WALL PROTECTION CG 4 Manufacturer: Product No.: Finish: Legs: Height: Corner: Construction Specialties, or approved CO 8 Stainless Steel 2 ½” Full height 90 degree corners Surface mounted HR 1 Manufacturer: Product No.: Finish: Construction Specialties, or approved P RWS Stainless Steel, Wood Handrail, stain to match WD 1 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 47 2024 DOORS WOOD WD 1 Manufacturer: Product Color: Log No.: Dooge Veneers Inc. Anigre, Qtd Figured #77/30 FSC, stained to match architect’s sample CEILINGS ACOUSTICAL LAY IN CEILINGS ACT 1 Manufacturer: Product Style: Product Color: Size: Armstrong Healthzone Ultima White As Noted 3. Furniture Booklet Items The Furniture Booklet shall have tagged furniture plan(s), electrical plan(s), as well as all project furniture information. The Furniture Booklet shall include information on the proposed / installed furniture, including product name and number, color, finish, size, manufacturer, contact information, room/location, and any other pertinent information. The booklet shall follow the Furniture and Recycling Program subsections as described below:  Casegoods  Work Stations  Tables  Seating  Storage  Accessories  Trash/Recycling Receptacles  Outdoor Furniture NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 48 2024 4. Format for the Furniture Booklet Below is the format to be used for the Furniture Booklet. The first pages of the Furniture Booklet shall contain tagged furniture plan(s) and electrical plan(s) of the project. This should be followed by the Furniture and Finish data on 8½” x 11” as formatted below. WORKSTATIONS WORKSTATION Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: WS 1 STEELCASE Universal Steelcase Established Textured Paint Fog 7236 (Metal) Steelcase Plain Jane Petosky 5F72 (Trackable) Reduced Pulls, Configuration Varies, See Plan Typical Administrative Offices TABLES CONFERENCE TABLE Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: T 4 BERNHARDT Trace Table Oak 867 n/a 2nd Floor Conference Room CREDENZA Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Options/Remarks: Location: ST 2 BERNHARDT Shift Credenza Oak 867 Per NYU Standards 2nd Floor Conference Room NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FINISH & FURNITURE BOOKLETS Real Estate Development and Facilities 49 2024 SEATING TASK CHAIR Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Frame Color: Arm Cap: Options/Remarks: Weight Capacity: Casters: Upholstery (seat): Upholstery (back): Location: CH 5 STEELCASE Think 3D Knit Black Black n/a 400 lbs. carpet Mayer Durango Sapphire Steelcase 3D Knit Sailor Reception Desks, Admin Offices, MA Stations CONFERENCE CHAIR Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Frame Color: Arm Cap: Options/Remarks: Weight Capacity: Casters: Upholstery (seat): Upholstery (back): Location: CH 17 KEILHAUER Vanilla Chrome Frame None n/a 300 lbs. carpet Maharam Article Storm Luum Line Language, Pigment 2nd Floor Conference Room TRASH/RECYCLING RECEPTACLES FRONT OF HOUSE RECEPTACLES Tag: Manufacturer: Product name: Finish: Internal Rigid Liner(s): Options: Location: TB 6 Nucraft Recycling Center Oak 867 By Manufacturer Per NYULH Standards 2nd Floor Conference Room NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 50 2024 CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS The Space Planning and Management group of RED+F is responsible for space reporting, assessment and planning for NYU Langone Health. In order to fulfill its responsibilities, the group maintains a space inventory of all owned and leased properties, comprising floor plans and usage information. To assure project teams are working with the latest drawings, the A/E Team shall request electronic drawing files from the space inventory directly from the Space Planning and Management group. Keeping all floor plans and space information current is important to our operations. The RED+F PM and A/E Team involved in capital projects that impact the space inventory must provide appropriate documentation to the Space Planning and Management group in a timely manner. Drawings/Models shall be delivered to NYU Langone Health on the completion of each of the following phases: Schematic Design, Design Development, Construction Documents, and Construction Administration. Drawings showing as built conditions shall be delivered as part of the Close Out process upon construction completion. 1. Mode of Delivery All project files shall be delivered via BuildFlow, the NYU Langone Health construction document management site. 2. File Submission Requirements  Drawing Files (.dwg) Drawings shall be delivered in DWG format. Each drawing file shall contain the drawing sheet(s) in AutoCAD Space Mode. All X ref drawings shall be bound and inserted into the drawings. Files shall be uploaded individually into BuildFlow in DWG format. ZIP files will not be accepted. All 3D and BIM drawings shall be exported from BIM in the coarse view setting to 2D compatible DWG files. Prior to conversion, hatching shall be removed and material details shall be unchecked from the materials view. The floor plans shall be delivered in their entirety. Partial or clipped floor plans will not be accepted.  Plotsheet Files (.dwfx / .pdf) Plotsheet files should be generated out of the BIM and/or drawing files in DWFx and/or PDF format. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 51 2024 3. File Standards This subsection establishes the basic file standards and naming conventions that must be used when developing a project using Computer Aided Design (CAD) technology for NYU Langone Health.  Project Identification Number Each project within NYU Langone Health is assigned a unique Project Identification Number, also referred to as the PIM #. At the inception of all projects, the A/E Team must obtain the NYU Langone project ID number from the RED+F Project Manager to support the proper naming of drawing/model files, content and other support files. The PIM # must appear clearly on the drawing sheet(s).  Regulatory Agency Application Numbers The NYC Department of Buildings job number for projects in New York City or the equivalent for projects in municipalities outside of New York City must appear clearly on the drawing sheet(s).  Discipline Codes All drawing/model files, content and support files shall be prefixed with the appropriate Discipline Code (D). Discipline codes in use by NYU Langone Health are in line with the national CAD standards. The most common are listed in the table below: Code Discipline Name Code Discipline Name A Architectural L Landscape C Civil M Mechanical E Electrical P Plumbing FP Fire Protection S Structural  Drawing List Standards Drawing sets shall be organized as described below: A 000 General Information A 100 Floor Plans A 200 Elevations A 300 Exterior Details A 400 Interior Details A 500 Vertical Transportation A 600 Reflected Ceiling Plans A 700 Finish Plans A 800 Schedules Note: Consultant drawings should follow the same format (i.e. M 000 General Information, M 100 Floor Plans, etc.). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 52 2024  File Naming Standards All electronic project information should be named following the nomenclature outlined in these guidelines. This will ensure that projects can be accurately maintained during production, archived at each milestone and retrieved for future use. Drawing Files (.dwg) Drawing Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number followed by a dash, the Sheet Number, underscore and the Sheet Name. The filename should take the form of: PIM# Sheet Number_Sheet Name.format As an example, an Architecture Drawing File would be named as follows: 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.dwg Model Files (.rvt) Model Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number followed by a dash, and a Discipline Code. If multiple models are being submitted for a single discipline you may use a level 2 designator as outlined in the national CAD standards. The filename should take the form of: PIM# D.format As an example, an Architecture Revit Model File would be named as follows: 10662 A.rvt Plotsheet Files (.dwfx / .pdf) Plotsheet Files should be named beginning with the Project Identification Number, followed by a dash, the Sheet Number, underscore and the Sheet Name. The filename should take the form of: PIM# Sheet Number_Sheet Name.format As an example, an Architecture Plotsheet File would be named as follows: 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.dwfx 10662 A 100_First Floor Plan.pdf NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines CAD DOCUMENTATION STANDARDS Real Estate Development and Facilities 53 2024 CAD LAYER STANDARDS Category RED+F Layer Name Description RED+F CAD Color RED+F CAD Lineweight RED+F CAD Linetype Architectural A CURB Curbs for Equipment 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A DOOR Doors 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A DOOR IDEN Door number, hardware group, etc. 4 cyan Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR EVTR Elevator cars and equipment 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR GRATE Grating 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN ROOM Room numbers 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN PRE EPIC Pre EPIC Room numbers 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR IDEN TEXT Room names, targets, occupants, etc. 7 white Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR SHFT Shafts 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR SIGN Signage 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A FLOR STRS Stair treads, escalators, ladders, level changes, ramps, pits, depressions 2 yellow Default Continuous Architectural A ROOF Roof 1 red Default Continuous Architectural A WALL EXTR Exterior Building Wall 5 blue Default Continuous Architectural A WALL INTR Interior Building Wall 3 green Default Continuous Architectural A WNDW Windows, curtain walls, glazed partitions 4 cyan Default Continuous General DEFPOINTS Defpoints 7 white Default Continuous Electrical E LITE Lighting 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E LITE EXIT Exit lighting 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E POWR WALL Power wall outlets and receptacles 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E SAFETY CRDRDR Card reader 3 green Default Continuous Electrical E SAFETY ICDB Intercom/door buzzer system 3 green Default Continuous General G ANNO SYMB Symbols 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TEXT General Text 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TTLB Border and Title Block 7 white Default Continuous General G ANNO TTLB TEXT Border and Title Block Text 7 white Default Continuous General G LOGO Title Block Logo 94,56,150 Default Continuous General G SCALE Scale 7 white Default Continuous General G VP Viewport 7 white Default Continuous Interior I EQPM FIX Fixed Equipment, except HVAC 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I EQPM MOVE Moveable equipment 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I FURN Furniture 6 magenta Default Continuous Interior I MILLWORK Cabinetry / Casement 6 magenta Default Continuous Landscaping L SITE Site improvements 4 cyan Default Continuous Mechanical M HVAC EQPM Mechanical equip. (chiller, boiler etc.) 6 magenta Default Continuous Plumbing P FIXT Plumbing fixtures, toilets, sinks 6 magenta Default Continuous Plumbing P SAFETY SHWSH Emergency shower and eye wash 6 magenta Default Continuous Structural S COLS Columns 2 yellow Default Continuous Structural S GRID Column grid 2 yellow Default Center Telecomm T JACK Data/telephone jacks 3 green Default Continuous NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 54 2024 BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING NYU Langone Health is committed to improving the coordination of design and construction activities to enhance communication between project stakeholders, ensure that the design is accurate and comprehensive, and reduce the risk of errors or conflicts during construction. In line with that effort, Building Information Modeling (BIM) shall be implemented throughout the project lifecycle for all projects 25,000 square feet or greater or as stipulated by Services Order, RFQ, or RFP. The purpose of these guidelines is to outline the process for utilizing BIM on capital projects. The information provided includes: 1. BIM Uses and Goals 2. BIM Execution Plan 3. VR Review Requirements 1. BIM Uses and Goals The following list of BIM uses shall be implemented on NYU Langone Health capital projects either as Basic Services or Additional Services. . BASIC SERVICES BIM Use Goal Programming  Include NYU Langone Health (NYULH) space programming data and validate program meets requirements. Existing Conditions Modeling  Create existing conditions models within project scope for areas to be surveyed or field verified prior to commencing design. Design Authoring  All projects to use Autodesk Revit BIM authoring application. Drawing Generation (Drawing Production)  Derive all drawings from Autodesk Revit BIM authoring application during all phases of a project. Design Reviews  Visually review design solutions in 3d or virtually; validate end user design requirements; evaluate alternatives. 3D Coordination  Eliminate conflicts prior to construction, reduce RFI’s, and eliminate field condition change orders. Field and Management Tracking  NYULH to make available the use of BIM 360 during construction administration. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 55 2024 ADDITIONAL SERVICES BIM Use Goal Cost Estimation (Quantity Take off)  Early master planning and design cost estimation based on gross sq. ft. rentable, lease, etc. using historical cost data.  Quantify model objects, and track cost and cost changes during design and construction. Phase Planning (4D Modeling)  Preliminary phasing studies, project phasing, master planning, linked to schedules for sequencing, visual studies.  Project phasing during design and construction, for visualization, presentation, design consultant/construction schedules, and construction logistics. Site Analysis  Site studies, building orientation, real estate acquisitions, master planning. Engineering Analysis  Engineering analysis tools and processes to use BIM + BIM data for analysis. (Structural, MEP, etc.) Energy Analysis  Specific engineering analysis on energy use. Validating BIM and design performance. Lighting Analysis  Optimize lighting analysis design solutions. Indoor (artificial) vs outdoor (natural) light. Sustainability / LEED Evaluation  Appropriately categorize and identify all sustainability criteria; NYULH to be able to distinguish building objects etc. impacting sustainability goals. Code Validation  Code validation; design consultant to validate fire and life safety code compliance, egress, travel distances, etc. Site Utilization Planning  Project phasing during construction, for visualization, presentation, construction logistics, site planning, and schedules. Construction System Design (Virtual Mockup)  Construction system design, required planning for logistics / workflow (i.e. placing large equipment, MRI machines, etc.) Digital Fabrication  Design to fabrication 3D Control and Planning (Digital Layout) Record Modeling  NYULH to require record model of as built conditions to include data and documentation necessary in support of FM/OM.  NYULH to use and maintain record model for FM/OM. Building (Preventative) Maintenance Scheduling  Update and maintain BIM in alignment with Building Maintenance Scheduling. Building Systems Analysis  NYULH to analyze and compare performance of building systems to design intent. Asset Management  NYULH to link FM/OM asset data to BIM. Space Management and Tracking  NYULH to integrate BIM space data and floor plans with IWMS Planon. Disaster Planning  NYULH to leverage BIM in disaster planning and recovery. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 56 2024 2. BIM Execution Plan The A/E Team shall develop a BIM Execution Plan to be submitted in the Schematic Design, Design Development and the Construction Document phases. Each revision shall be dated and all changes shall be tracked to compare the current revised version to the previous submission. The BIM Execution Plan shall include but not be limited to:  Cover Page Title: BIM Execution Plan Project Name: PIM #: Prepared by: Date and Rev #:  Table of Contents  Overview Introduce the BIM Execution Plan, provide a list of definitions and abbreviations used, and identify applicable BIM Standards.  The Project Provide a brief project summary (i.e. project name, location and size, whether it is a renovation or new construction, project scope, consultants, schedule, etc.)  The People Identify the Project Team, describe BIM roles and responsibilities, and assign each to a specific individual. Provide BIM lead contact information for each consultant and describe a BIM support plan for how to resolve issues within the BIM environment.  The Process BIM Uses: Identify BIM Uses that will aid in the development and delivery of the project’s scope of work. BIM Technical Requirements: Provide an outline of BIM software, file format versions, and equipment requirements. Information Exchange and Document Management: Identify a common data environment to be used for BIM collaboration. Outline the file structure, identify file naming conventions, and describe the versioning approach. Outline the procedure for model sharing including model publishing and linking. Collaboration Procedure: Describe the proposed BIM process identifying the information exchanges and processes necessary for the BIM uses. BIM Meetings: Identify the meetings that will be required for BIM coordination and awareness, at what frequency each is to take place, who the participants shall be, and where each is to be located. Model Update Schedule: Identify when the BIM model shall be updated. Coordination Periods: Outline coordination periods around milestone submissions when “frozen” models shall be generated for use as backgrounds by other BIM participants. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 57 2024 BIM Process Mapping: Provide a graphical representation of the proposed BIM process identifying the information exchanges and processes necessary for the BIM uses. Project Deliverables / Milestone Submissions: Provide a list of project specific BIM deliverables and due dates.  The BIM Model BIM Goals: Identify the BIM Goals that will be addressed through the use of BIM. Model Structure: Layering and File Naming Conventions Model Reference Coordination Model Content: Describe the model content requirements per discipline and the Level of Development per phase. LOD 100 (SD Phase Concept): In this level, spaces shall be modeled as generic objects with approximate sizes, shapes, and locations to understand the design and spatial requirements. Blocks or space objects shall be placed in the model either randomly for quantification or deliberately to understand adjacencies, dependencies, stacking, etc. LOD 200 (DD Phase Approximate Geometry): In this level, model elements shall be graphically represented within the model as generic systems, objects, or assemblies with approximate specifications, quantities, sizes, shapes, locations, and orientation. Non graphic information may be attached to model elements without specific detail. Any information derived from LOD 200 elements shall be considered approximate. LOD 300 (CD Phase Precise Geometry): In this level, model elements shall be graphically represented within the model with accurate quantities, sizes, locations, orientation, detailing, assemblies, fabrication and installation information. Non graphic information shall be attached to model elements with specific detail. Any information derived from LOD 300 elements can be used during the construction. LOD 350 (CA Phase Precise Geometry with Connections): In this level, the model shall contain the same information as LOD 300, but shall also include interfaces, supports, or connections with other building components. It shall display how one system interacts with the other building systems. It shall include parts that are necessary for coordination between disciplines where nearby or attached elements are modeled including items such as supports and connections. The quantity, size, shape, location, and orientation of an element as designed can be measured from the model without referring to non modeled elements such as notes or call outs. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 58 2024 LOD 400 (CA Phase Fabrication): In this level, complete fabrication and assembly information can be derived directly from the model. The details and information contained by LOD 400 elements can be handed over directly to suppliers to manufacture the building components being represented. LOD 500 (Close Out Phase As Built): In this level, the model shall have all the suitable geometry and information to support maintenance and operations of the space or building. All elements have been completed and installed, their location has been field verified, and they contain information that can be used post construction like model number, manufacturer, dates of purchase, etc. Quality Assurance / Control: Describe the quality assurance and control processes including but not limited to the following: A detailed Quality Assurance approach for planning and monitoring the modeling process. A detailed Quality Control approach for testing the final deliverables for accuracy, reliability, and compliance with required standards. 3. VR Review Requirements  Design BIM Coordination and Review The Design BIM model shall be reviewed at Design Documents and Construction Documents in virtual reality using Prospect by Iris VR or Resolve. The A/E Team shall have VR headsets and the necessary knowledge to operate them. The Architect and Engineer shall be present in the model while NYULH is performing its walkthrough. All issues noted during the DD review shall be corrected and reviewed in the CD BIM model. Major mechanical, electrical, and plumbing (MEP) coordination items shall be resolved by the A/E Team prior to Construction BIM modeling.  Construction BIM Modeling and Coordination The Design BIM model shall be handed off to the Construction Team and used as the starting point for Construction BIM modeling and coordination. The A/E Team shall include the following in the Project Specifications: The Construction BIM model shall be reviewed in virtual reality using Prospect by Iris VR or Resolve. The Construction Manager (CM) and/or General Contractor (GC) shall have VR headsets and the necessary knowledge to operate them. The CM and/or GC, and MEP trades shall create a Construction BIM model based on the Design BIM model. Refer to the Minimum Requirements for Design and Construction BIM Models included in this subsection. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 59 2024 Models shall be uploaded weekly by the CM and/or GC to Prospect VR or Resolve. When the latest models are uploaded, issues from previous models shall remain identified. Time for construction virtual model walks with NYULH shall be included in the project buy out. These meetings shall be separate of the BIM coordination meeting. They shall occur weekly for at least one hour, include the Project Team, and focus on equipment access and other relevant topics. The CM and/or GC shall track, review and correct all BIM issues with NYULH. The CM and/or GC, shall coordinate MEP systems with structural elements, such as beams and columns. The CM and/or GC, shall identify potential clashes or conflicts between MEP systems and other building elements. The CM and/or GC, shall maintain accessibility and maintenance clearances of MEP equipment and systems. The CM and/or GC, shall ensure compliance with fire and life safety requirements. NYULH approval is required prior to fabrication.  Minimum Requirements for Design and Construction BIM Models To ensure a comprehensive and accurate VR model, the following minimum requirements shall be met for both the Design and Construction BIM models: All elements shall be modeled at their corresponding Level of Development. All CAD and BIM files shall share the same project coordinate system. Property lines shall be modeled to accurately demarcate the agreed upon boundary of the site. Architectural elements shall be their own layers. Refer to the CAD Documentation subsection. MEP equipment shall be their own layers based on trade as well as equipment / system type. This shall include separate access clearance layers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 60 2024 MODEL ELEMENT DESIGN MODEL (LOD 100 300) CONST MODEL (LOD 350 500) ARCHITECTURAL Building Shell (i.e. roofs, exterior / curtain walls, windows, etc.) Building Core (i.e. hoistways, vertical shafts, stairs, machine rooms, equipment pits, etc.) Building Interiors (i.e. floors, walls, doors, ceilings, etc.) FF&E (fixtures, furnishings and equipment) Millwork Lighting Lighting controls AV Equipment Security Devices Civil and landscape elements, as required STRUCTURAL Foundations Floor slabs Columns Beams Trusses Beam penetrations Atypical beam conditions (i.e. coping, etc.) Large gussets or other large structural connections MECHANICAL HVAC Systems Ductwork Insulation, where applicable Pipe runs (1.5” or greater) (3/4” or greater) Dampers Duct straps Pipe trim, hangers, supports Equipment tags (to match design drawings) Equip. clearances, access doors, access / maintenance zones NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING INFORMATION MODELING Real Estate Development and Facilities 61 2024 MODEL ELEMENT DESIGN MODEL (LOD 100 300) CONST MODEL (LOD 350 500) ELECTRICAL / TELECOM Electrical Panels Electrical runs or clusters of electrical runs (1.5” or greater) (3/4” or greater) Electrical runs or clusters of electrical runs that penetrate building structure Rigid installations (i.e. cable trays, raceways, or conduit) requiring a sweep radius greater than 12” (1.5” or greater) (3/4” or greater) Communication Devices BOH Lighting Receptacles Equipment tags (to match design drawings) Equip. clearances, access doors, access / maintenance zones PLUMBING / FP Plumbing Fixtures Sloped piping regardless of diameter Pipe runs or clusters of pipe runs (1.5” or greater) (3/4” or greater) Pipe runs or clusters of pipe runs that penetrate structural elements Gravity and vertical drains regardless of diameter and slope Insulation, where applicable Plumbing clean outs Pipe trim, hangers, supports VESDA (Very Early Smoke Detection Apparatus) Equipment tags (to match design drawings) Equip. clearances, access doors, access / maintenance zones BMS BMS sensors Monitoring or metering systems Control Valve Actuators NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 62 2024 SPACE PLANNING RED+F has developed this subsection based on space planning layouts that we have found to be successful at NYU Langone Health. Our goal in providing this information is to streamline the design process by providing the Architect and Interior Designer pertinent information they can use during the programming and planning phases of a project. The information provided includes: 1. Floor Area Definitions 2. Planning Definitions 3. Formulas and Ratios 4. Space Types by Staff Title 5. Typical Room Sizes and Furniture Layouts This information does not relieve the Architect or Interior Designer of designing a project that is code compliant and appropriate to the needs of the user. The Architect and Interior Designer may suggest other room and furniture layouts if they believe the proposed layouts support our mission, design principles, and the design intent of the project. 1. Floor Area Definitions The Architect and Interior Designer shall provide floor area information to NYU Langone based on the following definitions:  Gross Square Feet (GSF) Floor area measured to the outside face of a building’s exterior walls. GSF shall include the exterior wall thickness and all vertical penetrations (i.e. mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and elevator shafts, stairwells, etc.), as well as basements and garages.  Gross Departmental Square Feet (GDSF) The floor area for each department shall be measured from the outside face of a building’s exterior walls, the centerline of shared walls and to the corridor side of corridor walls. Building and Floor Common Elements shall be apportioned based on the percentage of the floor occupied by each department. In cases where the department occupies an entire floor of a building the GSF shall be used.  Usable Square Feet (USF) Gross floor area less Building Common Elements. For multi tenant/department floors, Floor Common Elements shall be apportioned based on the percentage of the floor occupied by each tenant/department. (per REBNY)  Net Square Feet (NSF) The area occupied by each identified program space measured to the centerline of interior partitions. Examples of such spaces include individual workspaces (i.e. workstations and offices), dedicated support spaces (i.e. conference rooms), shared support spaces (i.e. shared copier rooms, break rooms, etc.) and special mission critical spaces (i.e. exam rooms, laboratories, etc.). Note: Building Common Elements, Floor Common Elements, and primary and secondary circulation are not included. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 63 2024  Building Common Elements The building core and common elements include portions of a building that serve all tenants. Such items, inclusive of their nominal 4” enclosing walls, include equipment/utility rooms (i.e. mechanical, electrical and telecom rooms serving the entire building), HVAC shafts, telecom / electrical distribution shafts, elevator shafts, public stairwells, etc. (per REBNY)  Floor Common Elements The floor common elements include portions of a floor that serve all tenants of that floor. Such items, not inclusive of their enclosing walls, include corridors, common toilets, shared supply rooms, etc. (per REBNY) 2. Planning Definitions The Architect and Interior Designer shall provide planning information/calculations to NYU Langone based on the following definitions:  Max. Allowable Occupancy Maximum occupancy of a space as calculated per the Building Code(s). Note: The A/E Team needs to calculate the maximum allowable occupancy within a space per the Building Code(s) based on several factors including but not limited to egress stair widths, exit door widths, plumbing fixture counts, etc.  Workplace Seating (WPS) Seating designated for use by a single employee. This can be located within an open area or in an enclosed room as described below. Total workplace seating represents the total number of employees in a particular department. o Open Workplace Seating Seating designated for use by a single employee in an open area. This is a permanent seat such as a: Workstation Bench Reception o Enclosed Workplace Seating Seating designated for use by a single employee in an enclosed room such as a: Private Office  Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors. This can be located within an open area or in an enclosed room as described below: o Open Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors in an open area. Examples of such seating include: Waiting Areas Pantries Open Collaboration areas o Enclosed Collaboration Seating Seating available for use by a group of employees and/or visitors in an enclosed room. Examples of such seating include: Quiet Rooms Discussion Rooms Conference Rooms Training Rooms Multi Purpose Rooms NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 64 2024 3. Formulas and Ratios The following information is intended to assist the Architect and Interior Designer during the planning and programming phases. The Architect and Interior Designer must also factor in circulation and support spaces (i.e. copy rooms, filing rooms, storage closets, lactation rooms, etc.) into their design.  USF = GSF (Building Common Elements)  USF / WPS = USF ÷ Total # Anticipated WPS On average Administrative spaces should result in a USF / WPS of 100 150 sf.  Ratio of Open WPS = # of Open WPS ÷ Total # of WPS On average Administrative spaces should result in a Ratio of Open WPS of 75 .  Ratio of Workplace Seats to Collaboration Seats Administrative spaces have the following approximate ratios based on seating types for a department: Workplace Seating : Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.6to1 : 1 Encl. Workplace Seating : Open Workplace Seating =1 : 2.8to1 : 5.4 Encl. Collaboration Seating : Open Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.3to1 : 0.4 Workplace Seating : Enclosed Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.4to1 : 0.6 Workplace Seating : Open Collaboration Seating =1 : 0.2to1 : 0.5 Workplace Seating : Pantry Seating =1 : 0.2to1 : 0.3 Open Workplace Seating : Lockers =1 : 1to 1 : 1.5 Workplace Seating : Waiting =1 : 0.05to1 : 0.1 Legend: USF = Usable Square Feet GSF = Gross Square Feet WPS = Workplace Seats NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 65 2024  Clinical Waiting Area Seating Capacity The below NYULH seating capacities are based on the FGI Guidelines for Outpatient Facilities: The number and location of clinical waiting area(s) or room(s) and required seating shall support the clinical department’s operational model. Required seating capacity should be rounded up to the next whole number. Clear floor space should be provided for patients in Assistive Mobility Devices (i.e. wheelchairs, scooters, reclining wheelchairs, etc.). These spaces may be counted as part of the total number of required seats. Refer to the Inclusive Design subsection. FACILITY TYPE SEATING CALCULATION CLEAR FLOOR SPACE FOR ASSISTIVE MOBILITY DEVICES Birth center 2 per birthing room 1 Dental 1.5 to 2 per patient care room/station 1 Endoscopy 1.5 to 2 per endoscopy room 1 General and specialty medical services 1.5 to 2 per patient care room 1 Infusion center 2 per bay, cubicle, or bed 1 Orthopedics and Rheumatology 1.5 to 2 per patient care room Refer to Inclusive Design subsection Outpatient behavioral health and mental health center 1.5 to 2 per patient care room 1 Outpatient imaging 1.5 to 2 per patient care room 1 Outpatient surgery 1.5 to 2 per procedure / operating room 1 Rehabilitation therapy 1.5 to 2 per simultaneous patient visits Refer to Inclusive Design subsection Renal dialysis center 0.75 to 1 per patient care station 1 Urgent care center 2 per patient care room 1 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SPACE PLANNING Real Estate Development and Facilities 66 2024 4. Space Types by Staff Title The following chart represents the square footage requirements for typical work spaces as they relate to staff titles: STAFF TITLE / POSITION SPACE REQUIREMENTS Academic / Clinical / Research Admin / Hospital OPs Type Target Floor Area Department Chair SVP Extra Large Private Office 160 170 SF Vice Chair Large Private Office 120 130 SF Director / Wet Lab Research Faculty Medium Private Office 100 110 SF Research Faculty Private Office 85 95 SF Faculty / MD VP / Director Small Private Office 80 85 SF Fellows / Staff Manager / Staff Workstation 35 40 SF Residents / Post Docs Admin Staff / Consultant Bench Seating 5 6 LF Notes: 1. Target floor areas are approximate. 2. Spaces can be modified to fit within site conditions including the