for an Increase in Patient Needs Dr. Jethanamest and his team aim to catalogue and review the different types of electrodes and how they perform over time, including new devices that continually become smaller and smarter. “For now, they are around 1 millimeter in diameter,” he says. “The question is, someday, when one of the slim ones fails, will we have even slimmer ones or different form factors altogether? Maybe something a little more rigid would help, but the flexible ones work as long as you can get the right anatomic exposure.” The researchers have also just completed a study, collaborating with colleagues in radiology, to evaluate a protocol for optimizing image quality and reducing the associated artifact of MRI in patients with CIs. Daniel Jethanamest, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery and director of the Division of Otology, Neurotology, and Skull Base Surgery. His research interests include cochlear implantation, speech perception, hearing loss, and acoustic neuromas. Presenters at the 2022 AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting￼ This September, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the AAO-HNSF Annual Meeting and OTO Experience in Philadelphia. This year’s program featured over 400 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Forward Together On September 11, 2022, Max April, MD Erich Voigt, MD , hosted live from the convention on SiriusXM’s . Featured guests included: 2 p.m.: Zara Patel, MD, (Stanford Health) discussed developments in the treatment of anosmia, sinus problems, and other post-COVID-19 illnesses. 2:30 p.m.: A talk with Ken Yanagisawa, MD, (AAO-HNSF President) and J. Thomas Roland. Jr., MD , brought us the latest discoveries in cochlear implants. 3 p.m.: Michael J. Rutter, MD, (Cincinnati Children’s Hospital) reviewed new advancements in pediatric otolaryngology. 3:30 p.m.: James C. Denneny III, MD, (Executive Vice President/CEO of AAO-HNSF) and colleagues presented the World Sinus Health Awareness Panel. Below are notable sessions from the conference featuring our faculty and fellows (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). Sunday, September 11 Oral Presentation Adjuvant Radiotherapy in Moderately Advanced (T3) Oral Cavity Cancers Speakers: Babak Givi, MD , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS; Ronald Wang, BS; Alec Vaezi, MD , clinical associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 114LC Advanced Cochlear Implantation: Obstructed and Malformed Speaker: , Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 115B Discrepancies in Prices of FDA-Approved Agents for Head and Neck Cancer , associate professor; Alex Gordon, BS, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 126A Video Presentation World Sinus Health Awareness Location: 122AB Monday, September 12 Long-Term Outcomes Following Prolonged Mechanical Ventilation for COVID-19 Milan Amin, MD , professor; Tyler Crosby , fellow; Paul Kwak, MD , assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 119B Otologic Adverse Events Due to Teprotumumab: A Prospective Assessment of 35 Patients Tuesday, September 13 , professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Facial Reanimation After Intratemporal Facial Nerve Schwannoma Resection: A Meta-Analysis David Friedmann, MD , associate professor; Judy Lee, MD , clinical associate professor; Antonios Varelas, MD , postgraduate year four resident, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 121AB Quantifying Facial Movement in Facial Palsy Patients Using Iphone Truedepth Technology , associate professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Wednesday, September 14 Measurement of Upper Airway Volume in Children with Craniofacial Abnormalities Leena Asfour, MD , chief resident; Alex Gordon, BS; Scott Rickert, MD , clinical assistant professor, Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Location: 107AB Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer A schematic of the precision two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) protocol used in the study. Radiation oncologists at NYU Langone Health’s have pioneered a novel approach to treating localized prostate cancer that uses genomic classification of the tumor and radiographic data to personalize two-fraction stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). A recently launched phase 1/1B clinical study Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD , medical director at NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan , aims to evaluate the therapy, which can be delivered in as little as one week. Current five-fraction protocols are commonly delivered over nine weeks. A unique aspect of the approach is the ability to combine genetic profiling of the patient’s tumor with multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) to personalize treatment and deliver the requisite dosage of radiation. From a tumor biopsy, the team can assess whether the patient is low, intermediate, or high risk, and direct the appropriate dose of radiation to specific areas of concern using mpMRI. “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients.” “Harnessing the specific genetic profile of the tumor cells and granular radiographic information identified on MRI, we can personalize treatment for each of our patients,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We are optimistic that long-term oncological outcomes can be improved by utilizing this approach.” The two-fraction study, which is only offered at two locations, in Manhattan and at Perlmutter Cancer Center on Long Island, is open to patients with low- to intermediate-risk prostate cancer. “Studies have shown that having nine weeks of radiation therapy is the most financially burdensome of any type of treatment for prostate cancer,” Dr. Lischalk says. “We’re trying to reduce that burden by moving people into a shorter course of treatment while simultaneously genetically and radiologically personalizing cancer care using a treatment technique pioneered here at NYU Langone.” Jonathan W. Lischalk, MD, is an assistant professor of radiation oncology, medical director of NYCyberKnife at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Manhattan, and director of research in the Department of Radiation Oncology at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. He specializes in treating prostate, lung, brain, and spine cancer using CyberKnife radiosurgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting This April, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) annual meeting in San Diego. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows. Selective therapeutic antibodies against oncogenic mutations of the HER2 extracellular region LBPO.ET01 – Late-Breaking Research: Experimental and Molecular Therapeutics 1 Injin Bang, PhD Senior Author: 1:30–5:00PM Hepatocytes compensate for the loss of PHGDH in pancreatic cancer cells during liver metastasis Session PO.TB11.12 – Pancreatic Cancer Microenvironment Koelina Ganguly, MD 9:00AM–12:30PM Minisymposium TNG260, a small molecule CoREST inhibitor, sensitizes STK11-mutant NSCLC to anti-PD1 immunotherapy Session MS.IM01.02 – Immune Targets and Therapies Ayushi Patel, PhD Kwok-Kin Wong, MD, PhD 3:05–3:20PM A novel mouse model reveals potential therapeutic strategies for RIT1-driven lung adenocarcinomas MS.MCB03.01 – Novel Mechanisms of Oncogenesis and New Therapeutic Targets Alessandro Mauro Mozzarelli, PhD Pau Castel, PhD 3:20–3:35PM Tuesday, April 9 Topographical investigation of metabolites in excised squares (TIMES2): Comprehensive cross-sectional metabolite quantification of pancreatic cancer in vivo PO.MCB09.03 – Metabolomics Peter Yu, MD 9:00AM-12:30PM Oral microbiome and subsequent risk for head and neck squamous cell cancer development MS.PS01.01 – Molecular Epidemiology Soyoung Kwak, PhD Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD 3:35–3:50PM The gut microbiome is associated with recurrence free survival in patients with resected Stage III or Stage IV melanoma treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors Session PO.CL01.10 – Predictive Biomarkers 5 Mykhaylo Usyk, PhD candidate Jiyoung Ahn, PhD Wednesday, April 10 Major Symposium Cancer Metabolism Across Scales: From Organelles to Organisms 10:15–11:45AM Twin Studies Support Stereotactic Radiosurgery as Standard Practice Advances in Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) over the past several decades have allowed cancer patients with multiple brain metastases to be treated using single or multiple fractions of radiation therapy. NYU Langone Health utilizes specialized Gamma Knife® SRS , and is a world leader in clinical and research application of this technology. “Our experts treat more over 600 patients each year using SRS, making NYU Langone one of the highest volume centers in the United States,” says Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD , an associate professor radiation oncology and neurosurgery who specializes in brain cancer. As few prior studies using SRS had included patients with larger numbers of brain metastases, Dr. Silverman and colleagues including , a professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery, have undertaken several studies evaluating the use of Gamma Knife SRS in patients with ≥25 brain metastases—a population traditionally associated with poor prognosis. “For patients with multiple brain metastases, particularly in subsets that can be treated successfully with immunotherapy, or molecular targeted agents, these patients can often live for years.” Hippocampal Sparing with SRS In a recent dosimetric analysis of prospective registry data, they identified 89 patients treated with SRS for ≥25 brain metastases in single or multiple sessions. They analyzed the distribution of metastases relative to the hippocampal avoidance (HA)-region and hippocampi (HC), and measured the incidence of perihippocampal tumor location. Doses from each session were summed to calculate HC dose. Among the 89 patients, the median number of tumors irradiated per patient was 33 (range 25-116), delivered in a median of 3 (range 1-12) sessions. HC doses were significantly correlated with the tumor number and volume. Of 3,059 total treated tumors, 83 (2.7 percent) were located in the HA-region, affecting 57 percent of patients. The researchers also reported that 38 tumors (1.2 percent) abutted or involved the HC itself. “There may be improvement in neurocognitive outcomes with hippocampal sparing using SRS rather than hippocampal avoidance whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) techniques,” Dr. Silverman says. “Patients who receive WBRT often experience neurocognitive side effects, including short term memory loss and deficits in expressive language skills, shortly after treatment—SRS affords hippocampal sparing.” Prolonging Survival for Patients with Brain Metastases Dr. Silverman notes given more patients and brain metastases are being treated with SRS alone, it is important to understand how patient, tumor, and treatment factors affect functional status and overall survival. In a second study, the researchers examined survival outcomes and dosimetry to critical structures in 95 patients treated with Gamma Knife SRS for ≥25 metastases. They reported the median number of SRS sessions per patient was 3 (range 1-12), with nearly all patients (98%) having more than one session. On univariate analysis, factors significantly affecting overall survival included histology, tumor volume, tumor number, diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment, brain metastasis velocity, and need for subsequent WBRT. Results showed that in selected patients with a large number of cumulative brain metastases, multiple courses of SRS are feasible and safe. “Together with new systemic therapies, we observed survival rates that compare favorably to larger contemporary cohorts, while avoiding WBRT in most patients,” Dr. Silverman says. “Our findings support SRS as a standard practice in selected patients with larger numbers of brain metastases.” Joshua Silverman, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiation oncology and neurosurgery. His research aims to improve survival and quality of life for patients with brain cancer. Corralling T Cells Inside Tumors Boosts Efficacy of Immunotherapy in Melanoma Blocking a chemokine signaling pathway keeps immune fighters from escaping into lymphatic vessels. Sparking a Metabolic Crisis to Shrink Pancreatic Tumors Researchers who identified amino acid transporter key to tumor growth are seeking inhibitors to target it. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes A neuroimmuno-oncology expert draws attention to complex neurological symptoms related to cancer and immunotherapies. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease Investigation into how cells use oxygen sparks new insights into multiple diseases, including a newly recognized neurological disorder. Telehealth tDCS Shows Promise for Neurologic Symptoms of Long COVID Leigh E. Charvet, MD 6 percent of adults in the United States are currently experiencing post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), also known as “long COVID.” To treat the syndrome’s neurologic symptoms, some researchers are investigating transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), an experimental therapy that has been used successfully to mitigate cognitive, motor, speech, and mood problems that can occur in a wide range of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. To date, however, only a few small clinical trials of tDCS in patients with PASC have been completed. The NIH recently launched a larger study that aims, in part, to clarify the method’s utility. The RECOVER-NEURO trial is testing tDCS alongside other interventions for cognitive dysfunction related to long COVID, including brain fog, memory deficits, and difficulties with attention and problem-solving. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction.” The phase 2 clinical trial will evaluate a web-based brain training program, BrainHQ, both alone and in tandem with tDCS or PASC-Cognitive Recovery, a web-based goal-management training program for people with PASC. BrainHQ will also be tested against an active comparator (video games) and paired with sham tDCS using devices from the manufacturer. These therapies will be administered via telehealth to patients across the United States under the supervision of co-principal investigator at NYU Langone Health and a leading researcher of tDCS’s potential for treating PASC. “This is the first nationwide, controlled clinical trial to directly address PASC-mediated cognitive dysfunction,” Dr. Charvet notes. Applying Findings from Multiple Sclerosis Over the past decade, Dr. Charvet has pioneered the use of home-based cognitive rehabilitation for patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). She was an early adopter of BrainHQ, whose efficacy she helped establish through clinical trials. Adding tDCS to that regimen, she found, significantly enhanced its cognitive impacts—a discovery that led her to shift her research focus to expanding the use of tDCS to reach patients at home through telehealth. The method has shown promise for patients with MS, stroke, Parkinson’s disease, and many other conditions, improving cognitive and motor symptoms, for instance, and also as a treatment for depression. “Imaging studies show that functional targeting with tDCS can strengthen neuroplasticity and increase blood flow in the brain,” she explains. “This can translate to a wide range of clinical benefits.” In 2019, Dr. Charvet began offering tDCS via telehealth to patients across the United States . The following year, when the COVID-19 pandemic struck, people with PASC started calling the clinic, asking if they could try tDCS. “They were just desperate for treatment,” Dr. Charvet recalls. She and her team worked with patients with PASC and their referring physicians to design remote treatment protocols, sparing COVID long-haulers—who were often experiencing severe debilitation—the necessity of office visits. “Our goal is to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life.” Anecdotally, the initial results were promising. “Our patients told us they were getting better,” Dr. Charvet says. Since then, she and her team have expanded both the clinical tDCS Program and their research efforts. Dr. Charvet has collaborated with colleagues at NYU Langone and elsewhere on preliminary studies of tDCS for PASC, which suggest that the method, paired with rehabilitation programs, can reduce fatigue and anxiety improve cognitive functions in people with the syndrome. She also helped design the protocol for the RECOVER-NEURO trial—part of the NIH’s RECOVER initiative, which strives to understand the biological processes driving long COVID and to identify effective treatments. Colleague , director of NYU Langone’s heart failure program, is principal investigator of the RECOVER Clinical Science Core. Seeking Answers with a Nationwide Trial RECOVER-NEURO will enroll a target of 315 patients from centers across the United States to its five arms, Dr. Charvet says. Once enrolled, participants will be referred to NYU Langone, which will centrally deliver the interventions to patients at home using their established telehealth protocols. Each participant will have five, 30-minute telehealth sessions per week for 10 weeks. The trial’s primary objective is to evaluate each intervention’s effect on cognitive function versus a comparator. “Our goal,” says Dr. Charvet, “is to be able to provide patients with long COVID an accessible, evidence-based treatment approach that will improve their quality of life and enable them to return to their responsibilities at home and at work.” Creating Foundational AI Models for the Health System Clinical predictive models can help physicians and administrators forecast hospital readmission and other healthcare factors, influencing decisions about patient care. While existing computer models rely on structured data neatly organized in tables, the resources required to organize data from clinical notes have made it challenging to deploy models in real time. Advances in artificial intelligence (AI) with large language models (LLMs) have the potential to resolve this by using an LLM to read and interpret physicians’ clinical notes. study recently published in , NYU Langone Health researchers used unstructured clinical notes to train NYUTron, a medical LLM, on 10 years of system-wide electronic health records (EHRs). The tool—currently in use in NYU Langone hospitals to predict the chances that a patient who is discharged will be readmitted within a month—is being trained for a wide range of other tasks. The study is the first application of an LLM successfully deployed in real time in a clinical setting. “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the LLM to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it.” “Our hypothesis was we can use large language models as the primary means of interfacing with the EHR. We can then take the wealth of unstructured data, use the language model to interact with it, and build other tools on top of it,” says , senior author on the study. Real-Time Predictions For the study, the researchers evaluated five predictive tasks: 30-day all-cause readmission, in-hospital mortality, comorbidity index, length of stay, and insurance denial. Across the five tasks, NYUTron had an area under the curve (AUC) of 78.7 to 94.9 percent, with an improvement of 5.36 to 14.7 percent in the AUC compared with traditional models. “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist.” “NYUTron has the potential to predict many care factors for which no predictive models currently exist. Or they do, but NYUTron works better, because the model is exposed to things that existing predictive models cannot access,” says Dr. Oermann. LLMs for Medical Use LLMs are most famous for their generative capacities in tools like ChatGPT. Beyond generative AI, they include a wide range of functionalities, including the ability to read and make meaning of data. Instead of generating content, NYUTron reads, interprets, and utilizes existing notes written by physicians in the EHR to make predictions. This advancement allows researchers to build a comprehensive picture of a patient’s medical state to make more-accurate predictions that inform patient care. The study had four steps: data collection, pretraining, fine-tuning, and deployment. Data included 7.25 million clinical notes from over 387,000 patients across four hospitals. This resulted in a 4.1-billion-word dataset, NYU Notes, that captures data from January 2011 to May 2020. Relative to many industry LLMs, this is a small dataset. The promising results from the study indicate the potential of research with smaller, more focused LLMs as opposed to generative models pretrained on large, nonspecific datasets. 30-Day Readmission Of the five areas researchers examined, the 30-day readmission prediction was the one they highlighted, “mainly due to the historical significance,” says Dr. Oermann. “People have been trying to predict 30-day readmission since the 1980s.” Real-world patient outcomes are tied to 30-day readmissions, making it significant for patients, clinicians, and hospital administrators. Researchers deployed NYUTron in real time to assess how well it predicted 30-day readmission against six physicians. NYUTron performed better than physicians and against other LLMs that were not pretrained on clinical notes. Generalizability Across Hospitals Developing and training AI models that retain performance across locations and medical populations has been a challenge with AI in healthcare. “With our experiments, as expected, there was a performance drop between , because the patient populations are different,” Dr. Oermann says. “We salvaged the performance drop by fine-tuning the model locally.” Beyond the five tasks evaluated in the study, the research team is working on around a hundred potential new tasks for the LLM to evaluate with the help of the Predictive Analytics Unit at NYU Langone. Additionally, the researchers are developing a consortium to share these techniques with other academic medical centers. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit The global prevalence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is approximately 25 percent , but can rise rapidly in the context of additional risk factors, such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. NAFLD can be histologically divided into non-alcoholic fatty liver (isolated hepatic steatosis) and non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Research suggests that the stage of liver fibrosis is the most important determinant of patient outcomes and mortality. “Patients with NASH and advanced hepatic fibrosis are at significant risk for liver-related complications, including hepatocellular carcinoma, end-stage liver disease, and the need for liver transplantation,” says hepatology director Ira M. Jacobson, MD. For affected patients, Dr. Jacobson describes several strategies that can promote timely diagnosis, plus new treatments on the horizon. Non-invasive Diagnosis Non-invasive tests , including blood tests and imaging modalities, have emerged as useful techniques to diagnose and stage NAFLD. Since clinical presentation is often non-specific, patients are not suspected of having liver disease until they develop late stage cirrhosis, Dr. Jacobson says. “Patients may have had years of minimally elevated alanine aminotransferase levels, that were not recognized as potentially portending progressive liver disease. Only a small proportion of cases are identified in the primary care setting.” While liver biopsy remains the gold standard in diagnosing and predicting the severity of NAFLD, there are drawbacks including its inherent invasiveness and significant sampling variability Among a variety of blood-based parameters, the Fibrosis-4 index (FIB-4) is simple and can be used to diagnose and stage fibrosis. FIB-4 can be easily calculated online in less than a minute using common laboratory findings combined with the patient’s age. It has well established cutoff values for predicting the presence or absence of advanced scarring or cirrhosis, although indeterminate values may occur. maging modalities , such as vibration-controlled transient elastography, supersonic shear imaging, and magnetic resonance elastography can help quantify the degree of scarring, Jacobson says. “Radiographic evaluation using elastography to determine the degree of fibrosis is based on liver stiffness, a property that is conferred by scar tissue.” New Drugs To date, no drugs have been FDA-approved for the treatment of NAFLD, although several are under investigation, with multiple trials ongoing at NYU Langone A key goal of pharmalogic therapy is to promote weight loss, particularly in those who fail to achieve their goals through diet and exercise alone. One drug class, glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP1) agonists, is used extensively in diabetic patients and works in substantial part by inducing weight loss. “The recent approval of the first GLP1 agonist specifically for weight loss was an important advance,” explains Jacobson. “GLP1 agonists alone or in combination with other agents are being studied for NAFLD in ongoing clinical trials.” Additional drug classes under investigation include farnesoid X peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor receptor agonists, FGF19 and FGF21 analogs thyroid hormone receptor beta-selective agonists “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Ira M. Jacobson, MD “Currently, there are over 50 investigational drugs being evaluated in NAFLD,” says Jacobson. “Novel therapies targeting not one, but multiple features of this condition hold great promise.” Hepatology, Gastroenterology Ira M. Jacobson, MD, is a professor of medicine and serves as director of hepatology. He is a recognized expert in the treatment of liver disease, including viral hepatitis B and C and other liver conditions. Eyeing the Future of Neurosurgery The field of neurosurgery has made rapid advances in recent decades, propelled by innovations in imaging and surgical navigation, as well as forward movement in new surgical techniques. Still, the greatest era of innovation may be ahead with the rise of artificial intelligence (AI), big data, and related technologies. To learn more about the potential future of neurosurgery research, spoke with , the current editor-in-chief of Neurosurgery Publications , and its flagship journal, . Dr. Kondziolka is one of the world’s leading neurosurgeons with a clinical and research focus in stereotactic radiosurgery and has played an active leadership role in disseminating neurosurgical research internationally. He served as associate editor of the before assuming the editorship of Taking the Helm As you became editor-in-chief of in 2022, what has been your vision for the journal itself? Dr. Kondziolka: Being one of the world’s preeminent journals of neurosurgical research, we want to continue attracting the very best content. That not only means evaluating articles and getting quality reviews back to the authors quickly, but also being at the forefront in disseminating information through different media forms—video content, podcasts, and also providing articles in audio format. One of my visions is to make quality science accessible globally—and by that I mean accessible not just among the scientific community, but also to a public who may not be so versed in English. We now have a platform called Neurosurgery Speaks , which offers translated audio abstracts in nearly a dozen different languages. I hope the journal continues advancing more multilingual options. Big Data’s Impact on Research Looking at the current state of neurosurgical research, what are the most prominent trends? Sophisticated data analysis is increasingly informing neurosurgical research. As part of this focus on data analytics, there’s a growing interest in having large datasets to work with. But those aren’t easy to obtain: No single institution has the ability to put together data on thousands of brain tumors, for instance. So, there’s a strong emphasis right now on establishing national data registries through the National Institutes of Health and other national and international organizations. There is a related push to incorporate greater detail into patient records. Fortunately, electronic health record (EHR) systems are making it much easier by enabling high-quality, point-of-care data collection that also tracks patient outcomes longitudinally. We’re building these systems here at NYU Langone, and others are doing it as well. At the same time, researchers and technology companies are developing better ways to extract data from EHRs using natural language processing and other means. “Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time.” Ultimately, the vision is to mine that data on a continuous basis to determine which treatment models are working best, and to report on findings virtually in real time. Where are the advances in data having the greatest impact today? One area is the interpretation of imaging. An entirely new field now exists, radiomics, that uses AI to understand imaging results. An MRI scan image actually contains hundreds of pieces of information, most of which the human brain can’t see—but a computer can. There’s even work underway on analytic techniques for identifying the genetic makeup of tumors and other diseases based on imaging. As this science develops, we’ll be able to learn much more about the nature and progression of diseases from various types of scans, which in turn will impact how we deal with them surgically. In my own specialty of radiosurgery, we recently finished an extensive analysis of acoustic neuroma cases that showed hearing loss outcomes were the same in patients who had their tumors removed with radiosurgery and patients who didn’t get treatment, but instead had the tumor observed. Previously, we thought hearing was more likely to be spared in the observed group, so this finding changes that thinking. “It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic.” Recently, our own program at NYU Langone released the world’s largest imaging and clinical dataset on brain metastases care, called NYU Mets , for open access research. It includes serial images and clinical information during the course of care, with segmented brain tumor volumes to assess response. It is our hope that putting our data out there for public use will accelerate scientific research on this major cancer topic. The Future of Spinal and Cerebrovascular Neurosurgery What advances are most impacting your specific areas of cerebrovascular and spinal neurosurgery? With cerebrovascular neurosurgery, the field is advancing all the time—especially around endovascular approaches to stroke care and aneurysm treatments. New devices are constantly being developed to repair aneurysms more gently and reduce stroke risks. From a research standpoint, there are many studies being done in this area involving our department and others across the country. Once again, much of that research comes back to using data analysis to determine how we can best manage these conditions more effectively and safely. Regarding spine, given our aging population in the United States, the surgical treatment of spinal degenerative deformity is certainly an important area. There’s a good deal of interest in helping older individuals stand straighter and maintain healthy spinal function as they age. Surgically Managing a Rare Complication of NF1 Dystrophic Scoliosis Imaging upon presentation demonstrates complete lateral subluxation of T4 on T5 as seen on anteroposterior X-ray (A) and corneal CT (B). MRI showed severe spinal cord compression at the junction of the subluxation (C and D). A Spontaneous Subluxation When a 17-year-old, neurologically normal male patient diagnosed with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) and scoliosis experienced an extremely rare complication—a complete spontaneous lateral subluxation of his T4 and T5 vertebrae, dislocating the spine and compressing the spinal cord—a carefully planned intervention leveraging the most advanced surgical techniques and intraoperative imaging offered hope of restored mobility and a return to sports. The young male had been followed for his scoliosis and was an established patient at NYU Langone Health’s . With the sudden and atypical spinal dislocation, he was referred to Darryl Lau, MD , an assistant professor of neurosurgery and director of complex spine and spinal deformity at NYU Langone. Dr. Lau confirmed that for such a high degree of spinal instability and spinal cord compression, intervention was urgent to preserve the patient’s neurologic function. “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. . . . [S]uch complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” “In NF1 and dystrophic scoliosis, spontaneous subluxation can occur in cases where the disease has progressed severely. Combination of tumor growth, dural ectasia, and likely other unknown factors result in bony changes leading to instability,” Dr. Lau explains. “You would rarely see this severe of a fracture even with trauma, and such complex disease involving tumor, spinal cord injury, and scoliosis becomes a case for neurosurgery.” A Rare Case for Surgery Surgical treatment for NF1 dystrophic scoliosis is extremely challenging due to abnormal bony anatomy (inability to gain adequate spinal fixation), dural ectasia resulting in cerebrospinal fluid leak, and the need for tumor resection. After first attempting to realign the spine through halo gravity traction and seeing only minimal reduction in vertebral translocation, Dr. Lau and a multidisciplinary team planned a multilevel vertebral body resection and spinal reconstruction. While resection of the widespread tumor tissue typically observed in NF1 is not a primary goal of these procedures, notes Dr. Lau, significant resection was needed simply to enable the approach to this patient’s spine. Due to the volume of tumor tissue in the thoracic spine, which had thinned out the ribs and vertebral bodies and likely contributed to the translocation, the surgical team had to forego pedicle screws and instead employed a traditional method of laminar banding to the spine. The intricate spacing of screws would have been impossible without NYU Langone’s advanced intraoperative CT and navigation systems, notes Dr. Lau. Although vertebral column resections are typically reserved for the most severe deformities as this technique involves intricate work around the spinal cord and nerves, in this case both T4 and T5 were removed to facilitate complete reduction and achieve alignment. Improving Patient Outcomes Patients with NF1 having complex spinal reconstructions need to be carefully monitored for pseudarthrosis and mechanical failure years down the line, but this patient is recovering well, says Dr. Lau. His team’s combination of ever-expanding surgical expertise and new intraoperative technologies is allowing the Comprehensive Neurofibromatosis Center to take on a growing number of patients whose complex scoliosis, spinal tumors, and their concomitant effects would have once been inoperable, he notes. A Rigid Deformity Despite five weeks of traction, there was minimal to no reduction or movement of the T4 and T5 subluxation. Pre-traction (A) and post-traction (B) images are shown. Dr. Lau first recommended an attempt to realign the spine through halo gravity traction in