Executive Summary NYU Langone Hospital Long Island is submitting this Administrative Review CON application for the relocation of an existing Article 28 Extension Clinic, the NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Women’s Wellness Clinic currently located at 1 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, New York 11550 to the 7th floor of 175 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, New York 11550. This relocation will co locate the Women’s Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic. This relocation will enhance the patient experience for several medically underserved groups by providing immediate and easy access to multiple healthcare services for families in one convenient location. The Women’s Wellness Clinic will be located next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic, allowing women and their children to both be seen by clinicians in one building. The Women’s Wellness Clinic relocation next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic on the same floor will improve access to care for patients and their children through enabling them to go to a single location for healthcare. It also enables them to book their and their children’s appointments on the same day through a joint appointment scheduling system, thereby reducing the number of trips required and time off from work and other commitments to attend appointments. The new Suite will have its independent access from the elevator lobby. The program will consist of 6 exam rooms, two of which are used intermittently for Ultrasound exams and share a toilet. Phlebotomy, a Non Stress Testing room and a social worker round out the patient facing program. The room sizes and amenities as well as support spaces are in line with FGI 2018 requirements for Outpatient Facilities. The project is designed to comply with all ADA requirements and the facility will be fully ADA accessible. Please note that the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY) will conduct the architectural review of this application. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 1 (Revised 11/2019) Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 CON Forms Regarding Environmental issues Contents: Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 Environmental Assessment DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 2 (Revised 11/2019) Environmental Assessment Part I. The following questions help determine whether the project is "significant" from an environmental standpoint. Yes No 1.1 If this application involves establishment, will it involve more than a change of name or ownership only, or a transfer of stock or partnership or membership interests only, or the conversion of existing beds to the same or lesser number of a different level of care beds? 1.2 Does this plan involve construction and change land use or density? 1.3 Does this plan involve construction and have a permanent effect on the environment if temporary land use is involved? 1.4 Does this plan involve construction and require work related to the disposition of asbestos? Part II. If any question in Part I is answered “yes” the project may be significant, and Part II must be completed. If all questions in Part II are answered “no” it is likely that the project is not significant Yes No 2.1 Does the project involve physical alteration of ten acres or more? 2.2 If an expansion of an existing facility, is the area physically altered by the facility expanding by more than and is the total existing and proposed altered area ten acres or more? 2.3 Will the project involve use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater to ground or surface water in excess of 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.4 If an expansion of an existing facility, will use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater by the facility increase by more than and exceed 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.5 Will the project involve parking for 1,000 vehicles or more? 2.6 If an expansion of an existing facility, will the project involve a or greater increase in parking spaces and will total parking exceed 1000 vehicles? 2.7 In a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project entail more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.8 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 100,000 square feet? 2.9 In a city, town or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project entail more than 240,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.10 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 240,000 square feet? 2.11 In a locality without any zoning regulation about height, will the project contain any structure exceeding 100 feet above the original ground area? 2.12 Is the project wholly or partially within an agricultural district certified pursuant to Agriculture and Markets Law Article 25, Section 303? 2.13 Will the project significantly affect drainage flow on adjacent sites? DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 3 (Revised 11/2019) 2.14 Will the project affect any threatened or endangered plants or animal species? 2.15 Will the project result in a major adverse effect on air quality? 2.16 Will the project have a major effect on visual character of the community or scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community? 2.17 Will the project result in major traffic problems or have a major effect on existing transportation systems? 2.18 Will the project regularly cause objectionable odors, noise, glare, vibration, or electrical disturbance as a result of the project's operation? 2.19 Will the project have any adverse impact on health or safety? 2.20 Will the project affect the existing community by directly causing a growth in permanent population of more than five percent over a one year period or have a major negative effect on the character of the community or neighborhood? 2.21 Is the project wholly or partially within, or is it contiguous to any facility or site listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or any historic building, structure, or site, or prehistoric site, that has been proposed by the Committee on the Registers for consideration by the New York State Board on Historic Preservation for recommendation to the State Historic Officer for nomination for inclusion in said National Register? 2.22 Will the project cause a beneficial or adverse effect on property listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places or on property which is determined to be eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places by the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation? 2.23 Is this project within the Coastal Zone as defined in Executive Law, Article 42? If Yes, please complete Part IV. Part III. Yes No 3.1 Are there any other state or local agencies involved in approval of the project? If so, fill in Contact Information to Question 3.1 below. Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 4 (Revised 11/2019) Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.2 Has any other agency made an environmental review of this project? If so, give name, and submit the SEQRA Summary of Findings with the application in the space provided below. Yes No Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.3 Is there a public controversy concerning environmental aspects of this project? If yes, briefly describe the controversy in the space below. Yes No Part IV. Storm and Flood Mitigation Definitions of FEMA Flood Zone Designations Flood zones are geographic areas that the FEMA has defined according to varying levels of flood risk. These zones are depicted on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map. Each zone reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area. Please use the FEMA Flood Designations scale below as a guide to answering all Part IV questions regardless of project location, flood and or evacuation zone. Yes No 4.1 Is the proposed site located in a flood plain? If Yes, indicate classification below and provide the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance). Moderate to Low Risk Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, flood insurance is available to all property owners and renters in these zones: B and X Area of moderate flood hazard, usually the area between the limits of the 100 year and 500 year floods. Are also used to designate base floodplains of lesser hazards, such as areas protected by levees from 100 year flood, or shallow flooding areas with average depths of less than one foot or drainage areas less than 1 square mile. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 5 (Revised 11/2019) C and X Area of minimal flood hazard, usually depicted on FIRMs as above the 500 year flood level. High Risk Areas Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: A Areas with a annual chance of flooding and a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Because detailed analyses are not performed for such areas; no depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. AE The base floodplain where base flood elevations are provided. AE Zones are now used on new format FIRMs instead of A1 A30. A1 30 These are known as numbered A Zones (e.g., A7 or A14). This is the base floodplain where the FIRM shows a BFE (old format). AH Areas with a annual chance of shallow flooding, usually in the form of a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. AO River or stream flood hazard areas, and areas with a or greater chance of shallow flooding each year, usually in the form of sheet flow, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Average flood depths derived from detailed analyses are shown within these zones. AR Areas with a temporarily increased flood risk due to the building or restoration of a flood control system (such as a levee or a dam). Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements will apply, but rates will not exceed the rates for unnumbered A zones if the structure is built or restored in compliance with Zone AR floodplain management regulations. A99 Areas with a annual chance of flooding that will be protected by a Federal flood control system where construction has reached specified legal requirements. No depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. High Risk Coastal Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: Zone V Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. No base flood elevations are shown within these zones. VE, V1 30 Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. Undetermined Risk Area Yes No Zone Description DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 6 (Revised 11/2019) D Areas with possible but undetermined flood hazards. No flood hazard analysis has been conducted. Flood insurance rates are commensurate with the uncertainty of the flood risk. 4.2 Are you in a designated evacuation zone? If Yes, the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance) shall be submitted with the application. If yes which zone is the site located in? 4.3 Does this project reflect the post Hurricane Lee, and or Irene, and Superstorm Sandy mitigation standards? If Yes, which floodplain? 100 Year 500 Year The Elevation Certificate provides a way for a community to document compliance with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. https://www.fema.gov/media library data/1582295171786 6506170c5f54026f585e44e2fc94950d/FF086033_ElevCert_FormOnly_RE_11Feb2020.pdf DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (9/6/2022) Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission Contents: o Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 1 (9/6/2022) Architectural Submission Requirements for Contingent Approval and Contingency Satisfaction Schedule applies to all projects with construction, including Articles 28 & 40, i.e., Hospitals, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers, Residential Health Care Facilities, and Hospices. Instructions • Provide Architectural/Engineering Narrative using the format below. • Provide Architect/Engineer Certification form: o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation for Projects That Will Be Self Certified. Self Certification Is Not an Option for Projects over $15 Million, or Projects Requiring a Waiver (PDF) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation Projects to Be Reviewed by DOH or DASNY. (PDF) (Not to Be Submitted with Self Certification Projects) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Completed Projects (PDF) o Architect's or Engineer's Letter of Certification for Inspecting Existing Buildings (PDF) • Provide FEMA BFE Certificate. Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes. o FEMA Elevation Certificate and Instructions.pdf • Provide Functional Space Program: A list that enumerates project spaces by floor indicating size by gross floor area and clear floor area for the patient and resident spaces. • For projects with imaging services, provide Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Physicist’s Report including drawings, details and supporting information at the design development phase. o Physicist's Letter of Certification (PDF) • Provide Architecture/Engineering Drawings in PDF format created from the original electronic files; scans from printed drawings will not be accepted. Drawing files less than 100 MB, and of the same trade, may be uploaded as one file. o NYSDOH and DASNY Electronic Drawing Submission Guidance for CON Reviews o DSG 1.0 Schematic Design & Design Development Submission Requirements • Refer to the Required Attachment Table below for the Schematic Design Submission requirements for Contingent Approval and the Design Development Submission requirements for Contingency Satisfaction. o Attachments must be labeled accordingly when uploading in NYSE CON. o Do not combine the Narrative, Architectural/Engineering Certification form and FEMA BFE Certificate into one document. o If submitted documents require revisions, provide an updated Schedule 6 with the revised information and date within the narrative. Architecture/Engineering Narrative Narrative shall include but not limited to the following information. Please address all items in the narrative including items located in the response column. Incomplete responses will not be accepted. Project Description Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Revised Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Does this project amend or supersede prior CON approvals or a pending application? Not Applicable If so, what is the original CON number? Click here to enter text. Intent/Purpose: New location for existing Women’s Wellness Clinic Site Location: 175 Fulton Ave, Hempstead NY 11550 Brief description of current facility, including facility type: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 2 (9/6/2022) Women’s Wellness Outpatient clinic, 6 exam rooms Brief description of proposed facility: Women’s Wellness Outpatient clinic, 6 exam rooms Location of proposed project space(s) within the building. Note occupancy type for each occupied space. 7th Floor (top floor of building). Indicate if mixed occupancies, multiple occupancies and or separated occupancies. Describe the required smoke and fire separations between occupancies: Business Occupancies only, mixed tenants, top floor will be entirely Outpatient Facility by NYU once completed. 1hr Separation of Occupancies. If this is an existing facility, is it currently a licensed Article 28 facility? No Is the project space being converted from a non Article 28 space to an Article 28 space? No Relationship of spaces conforming with Article 28 space and non Article 28 space: New Article 28 space within currently vacant floor. Adjacent space is being filed separately as Article 28. Also adjacent is a shell space List exceptions to the NYSDOH referenced standards. If requesting an exception, note each on the Architecture/Engineering Certification form under item #3. Click here to enter text. Does the project involve heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, water supply, and fire protection systems that involve modification or alteration of clinical space, services or equipment such as operating rooms, treatment, procedure rooms, and intensive care, cardiac care , other special care units (such as airborne infection isolation rooms and protective environment rooms), laboratories and special procedure rooms, patient or resident rooms and or other spaces used by residents of residential health care facilities on a daily basis? If so, please describe below. Click here to enter text. No Provide brief description of the existing building systems within the proposed space and overall building systems, including HVAC systems, electrical, plumbing, etc. HVAC: The existing space is served by a common AHU that also serves two (2) other floors. Existing 2 pipe fan coil units serve the perimeter. The AHU is the constant flow, chilled water unit with hot water preheat coils. Hot water is provided by a steam to hot water heat exchanger. Steam and chilled water are provided by the building chillers and gas boiler. Service from the AHU will be capped and perimeter fan coil units to be demolished. ELEC: The building is provided with a centralized electrical service room located outside the tenant space. The electrical service is powered from a secondary step down pad mounted transformer located the rear of the site. The existing 7th floor tenant space is powered from an existing 120/208V, 3Ø, 4W, 500A circuit breaker in the tenant distribution panel located in the base building electrical service room. There are (4) 120/208V, 3Ø, 4W, 42 pole 200A panels in the tenant 7th floor electrical closet along with a 600A CT and utility meter. The equipment is in poor condition and will be replaced with new during renovation of the floor. Temp/shell space lighting fixtures, exit signs and lighting controls are currently installed. There is no emergency generator power in the building. Emergency/egress lighting is currently provided thru battery packs. The existing space is currently shell space and will be renovated to meet the program requirements. PLUM: The existing domestic water service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 4” domestic water. The domestic water service consists of a 4” copper pipe with no fiberglass type insulation. It was observed that the existing domestic water service is equipped with a 4” back flow preventer and a 4” water meter. The existing water service includes a 2” bypass with water meter and a 2” backflow preventer. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 3 (9/6/2022) Currently, domestic hot water within the building is produced by a gas fired, modular boiler and storage tank, located in the basement. Currently the buildings sanitary and vent system where visible on the floor was observed to be hub and spigot cast iron pipe. There are four (4) soil/waste & vent stacks located throughout the floors perimeter. Each stack consists of a 4” hub and spigot soil/waste riser that goes up and down the building. In addition, each stack has a 2” hub and spigot vent stack that goes up and down the building. The buildings storm system consists of eight (8) dome type roof drains. Existing storm piping at the ceiling of the 7th floor were visible consisted of 4” hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. There are four (4) 4” storm risers which also consist of hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. Each riser collects storm drainage from two (2) existing roof drains. Each of the four (4) storm risers share the same column as the existing soil/vent stacks. Existing storm piping at the ceiling of the 7th floor were visible consisted of 4” hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. There are four (4) 4” storm risers which also consist of hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. Each riser collects storm drainage from two (2) existing roof drains. Each of the four (4) storm risers share the same column as the existing soil/vent stacks. The existing natural gas service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 2” high pressure gas main within the basement. The gas main consists of a 2” black steel pipe and pressure regulators. It was observed that the existing gas service supplies three (3) existing gas meters. Meter #1) supplies the pilot for the existing steam boilers burner. Gas Meter #2 serves the boiler burner. Gas meter #3 service the existing restaurant tenant. SPRK: The existing fire service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 4” fire service. The fire service consists of a 4” iron pipe with fiberglass type insulation. The fire service includes a 4” meter and then increases from 4” to 8”. It was observed that the existing fire service was not equipped with a back flow preventer. The existing 8” fire service has an existing 8” swing style check valve. The existing fire service includes a 3” bypass. Currently the building is not fully sprinklered. An automatic sprinkler system exists only at the basement level, this is due to it being below grade and as required by the 1968 building code. The building is equipped with a fire standpipe system. The fire standpipe system consists of two (2) 4” fire standpipe rises each located within each of the existing stairs. The building includes stair A and B. At each of the fire standpipe risers at each floor includes a 2½” hose valve and 125 feet of 1½” fire hose in a cabinet. The existing building also includes an adjacent, open parking garage. The garage is protected via an existing 6” dry pipe, sprinkler alarm valve system, which is located within the building, at the basement level. Describe scope of work involved in building system upgrades and or replacements, HVAC systems, electrical, Sprinkler, etc. HVAC: One (1) new 50 ton rooftop RTU to be provided to serve the new Women’s Wellness clinic. The unit will comprise of a DX air cooled cooling coil, variable speed supply fan, variable speed return fan, MERV 14 filter in final position, and an airside economizer. The unit will provide a constant 55 degF supply air to the space. The space will be served by variable air volume boxes equipped with hospital grade sound attenuator and hot water reheat coils to maintain space at desired conditions. 2 way hot water control valves to be controlled by wall mounted thermostat. Hot water will be provided by one (1) new 500 MBH gas fired or electric boiler. The new Boiler will serve this space and adjacent space (future NYU Pediatric Wellness Clinic). One (1) new 3 ton wall mounted split air cooled system to serve the IDF room. The air cooled condensing unit to be located on the roof. The new refrigerant piping will be extended from the condenser to the evaporator. A leak detector and alarm to be provided and communicate with BMS System. One (1) new 1,100 cfm general and toilet exhaust utility fan to be located on the roof to serve all new toilets, lockers, soiled utility and janitor’s closets. ELEC: New utility electrical CT/meter cabinet will be provided with new 120/208V, 800A distribution circuit breaker panel for the new NYU clinic loads. All new tenant panelboards will be located in the tenant electrical room. Large loads from the new 800A panel indicated above are outlined as per the below: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 4 (9/6/2022) New 400A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new boiler and heating system loads. New 400A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new RTU and condenser. New 100A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new electric hot water heater. New 200A, 2 section panel shall be installed for all new NYU clinic lighting, receptacles and equipment loads. Electric power will be provided to all tenant loads as follows: •Receptacle Loads will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Telecom/BMS/Security will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Lighting loads will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Motor loads rated below 1/2HP will be energized at 120V or 208V, 1Ø. •Motor loads rated 1/2HP and greater will be energized at 208V, 3Ø. Branch circuits will consist of insulated copper conductors in raceway or cable. A minimum of 20 ampere branch circuits will be provided for lighting and power. Minimum wire size will be #12 AWG. Wiring will be copper with type THHN or type THWN insulation rated at 600 volts. Wire sizes #10 AWG and smaller will be solid, wire sizes #8 AWG and larger will be stranded. Branch circuit wiring shall be sized to limit voltage drop to less than 2. on the branch circuit. Maximum branch circuit lengths shall be identified on the design drawings. All lighting and power circuits will be provided with dedicated neutrals. All branch circuits serving patient care areas shall be provided with an effective ground fault current path by installation in a metal raceway for emergency branch circuits. Healthcare Facility MC or AC cable shall be utilized for normal concealed branch circuits in patient care areas. At a minimum, each examination room shall have (4) hospital grade duplex grounded receptacles convenient to the exam chair as per FGI requirements. Each enclosed, single occupancy office, 100 sf or less in area, shall have at least four (4) duplex receptacles, two (2) receptacles in a quad configuration located by the work station and two (2) convenience receptacles on the remaining walls. Hospital grade tamper resistant duplex grounded type receptacles shall be installed in all areas in sufficient quantities for program requirements. Non patient care spaces shall be provided with spec grade tamper resistant devices, unless otherwise required by NYULH. Lighting controls in the building spaces will be provided in accordance with the NY State Energy Code and consist of public corridors, restrooms, and lobbies will be controlled via ceiling mounted dual technology occupancy sensors, a power pack and a low voltage control switch to allow for automatic “on”, automatic “off” operation. Lighting in offices, exam rooms, storages and utility rooms will be controlled via wall mounted dual technology vacancy sensors for manual “on”, automatic “off” operation. Dimming and daylight harvesting controls as required per Code and user preference. Low voltage dimming shall be provided as required throughout as directed by the program requirements and shall be 0 10V typically. A nurse call system is not required per Code and can be provided should NYULH project wish to provide one at patient toilets. PLBG: The proposed program will require approximately 86 gpm of domestic cold water consumption for all proposed plumbing fixtures. The domestic cold water to the space shall be served by a new 2½” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, with lead free solder, glass mineral pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). The domestic water shall provide a minimum of 35 psi to the most hydraulically remote fixture during minimum pressure and maximum flow conditions. The domestic water system shall limit water velocity to 8 fps for main distribution branches, 4 fps on smaller branch legs. The proposed program will require approximately 25 gpm of domestic hot water consumption for all proposed plumbing fixtures. The domestic hot water to the space shall be served by a new 1½” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, with lead free solder, glass mineral pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). Domestic hot water shall be achieved via two heater options. A natural gas fired water heater, as manufactured by A.O. Smith Cyclone Mxi model #BTH 150 or equal, minimum thermal efficiency, a storage capacity of 100 gallons, an input rating of 150,00 BTU’s per hour and a recovery rating of 49 gallon per hour. Water heater shall be equipped with a thermo expansion tank, drip pan, leak detection system with solenoid shut off valve, gas cut off and a recirculating pump. An electric water heater, as manufactured by A.O. Smith Custom Xi Series, model #DSE 65 or equal, Heater should be rated at 12.3 kW, 208 volts, 3 phase, 50/60 cycle AC, a storage capacity of New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 5 (9/6/2022) 65 gallons, and a recovery rating of 50 gallon per hour. Water heater shall be equipped with a thermo expansion tank, drip pan, leak detection system with solenoid shut off valve, gas cut off and a recirculating pump. The new hot water storage tanks will store hot water at a nominal temperature of 140 degrees F. A thermostatic mixing valve shall be provided at the heater to reduce hot water temperature to approximately 120 degrees F. for distribution to plumbing fixtures. A new 1½” hot water distribution main will be extended from the water heater and distribution to all the hot water plumbing fixtures. Domestic hot water shall provide the minimum required pressure to the most hydraulically remote fixture during minimum pressure and maximum flow conditions. The domestic hot water system shall limit water velocity to 8 fps for main distribution branches, 4 fps on smaller branch legs. All new domestic hot water return piping shall be ¾” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, lead free solder, glass mineral insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). A new ¾” hot water common return and branch piping will be provided to all plumbing fixtures where required by the NYSECC. The domestic hot water system temperature will be maintained by circulating hot water from the supply circuit. Analysis for branch recirculation will consider flow rates of individual outlets, as well as distance and pipe sizes. Minimize “dead legs” on the domestic hot water systems shall comply with current ECC. The new hot water recirculating system shall be a Bell & Gossett Ecocirc XL 55 45, 25 gpm, 27 TDH, 1/2 HP, 208 volts, single phase circulating pump with aquastat controls as required by the ECC. This circulating pump shall be located and installed at the water heater. Sanitary & Vent All new sanitary/waste and vent piping shall be no hub cast iron pipe with stainless steel shield and gasket couplings above grade. The pitch of the new drainage system shall be of sufficient velocity to produce a scouring action that will convey all solids along with the liquid stream. Minimum velocity will be 2 fps. The sizing for the sanitary discharge will be based on the maximum discharge flow rate of all connected plumbing fixtures and equipment. Drainage from the new plumbing fixtures, floor drains, and equipment shall be collected and connected to the sanitary system. Ample clean out deck plates shall be provided on the sanitary piping serving all spaces. The venting system shall be designed to limit air pressure fluctuations within the sanitary drainage piping. The sizing of the branch vent piping will be based on the connected fixture units and developed length of vent pipe. Venting of plumbing fixtures shall be collected and connected to the vent system on an individual floor basis and will be connected to a new VTR. The sizing of the branch vent piping will be based on the connected fixture units and developed length of vent pipe. Toilet Rooms Patient, Staff and Visitors shall include wall mounted, back outlet, elongated water closet (1.28 GPF); open front toilet seat; flush valve (1.28 GPF). Lavatory, vitreous china basin, counter; hands free, faucet (.25 GPM per cycle), source of power shall be coordinated with NYULH requirements; carrier with floor anchors for wall mounted; wall carrier for wall mounted; chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Staff Break Room shall include stainless steel sink, single bowl, single hole; faucet (2.2 GPM); chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Exam Room shall include stainless steel sink, single bowl; faucet (2.2 GPM; chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Faucet to be 10” above bottom of sink. Janitors Closet shall include a floor basin, terrazzo, single bowl; faucet (2.2 GPM) Faucet spout, top braced to wall, with bucket hook and threaded hose end with wrist blade handles; cast iron P trap. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 6 (9/6/2022) Phlebotomy and Mothers shall include, stainless steel sink, single bowl, single hole; faucet (2.2 GPM); chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. The existing storm system shall remain as is and will only be modified as required. Any new storm piping shall match existing piping installed. Existing and or new storm piping shall be insulated with vapor barrier, glass mineral, pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). The new natural gas system shall consist of a new natural gas service with a gas meter as required for the CFH load of all gas fire equipment. Natural gas piping shall be threaded, standard weight, schedule 40, black steel pipe and fittings shall be steel or wrought iron. SPRK: New sprinklers associated piping, hangers and supports will be provided in all areas of the space as required by NYS BC and all applicable standards in accordance with requirements for fully sprinklered building. The sprinkler system shall be an automatic wet pipe type. Given the information available at this time, the program is not anticipated to include elements that require pre action sprinkler or alternative automatic extinguishing systems. Sprinkler heads will be quick / fast response type throughout, unless not permitted by NYS BC and all applicable standards (extra hazard occupancies) or otherwise not suitable for an application (high temperature spaces). Quantity of sprinkler heads shall be determined based on architectural design. It is anticipated that 211 sprinkler heads will be needed. The new sprinkler system shall be looped, hydraulically sized for a density of 0.10 GPM over a hydraulically remote area of 1,500 square feet as defined in NFPA for a light hazard occupancy area such as office areas, toilet rooms and pantry areas. Storage and mechanical room areas will be sized for ordinary hazard and hydraulically sized for a density of 0.15 GPM over a hydraulically remote area of 1,500 square feet. Concealed type sprinklers will be provided in areas with ceilings. Upright sprinklers will be provided in areas without ceilings such as the mechanical spaces. In areas where exposed ductwork or fixed obstructions are located; sprinklers will be provided above and below objects exceeding 48” in width per NFPA requirements. Describe existing and or new work for fire detection, alarm, and communication systems: Fire Alarm: Existing fire alarm devices are limited to just wall & ceiling mounted speaker strobes, smoke detectors and pull stations at the exit stairs. Existing fire alarm system is an addressable temporal 3 automatic and manual fire alarm system with central office connection, manufactured by Edwards, EST 3 systems. Building fire alarm vendor is Casey Fire Systems. All new fire alarm devices shall be Edwards or System Sensor and compatible with existing building EST 3 fire alarm system. New ceiling mounted smoke detectors will be installed inside each public space/room and above smoke compartments with remote LED indicators as per Nassau County Fire Marshal requirements. Outside elevator landings for recall elevators. New fire smoke dampers for wall rating protection will be provided with duct smoke detectors and control modules tied into fire alarm system for open/close functions. Control modules with addressable load relays to assure required fire safety operations such as ventilation unit shutdown greater than 2,000cfm and egress door release. Above ceiling smoke detectors shall be provided at all new mechanical equipment installed in the building since the shared return air plenum is over 2,000cfm. All units will be powered off via relays during fire alarm condition. Existing water flow alarm switches and tamper switches will be re used and interfaced with the sprinkler system. Carbon monoxide detectors equipped with sounding bases and visible notification will be provided within rooms containing carbon monoxide producing equipment and on the public corridor of the floor in alarm. Audible annunciation devices (horns) will be located in common spaces such as corridors, open offices and lobbies. Visible annunciation devices (strobes) will be located in common spaces such as corridors, open offices, lobbies, exam rooms, public restrooms, and conference rooms. If a hospital or nursing home located in a flood zone, provide a FEMA BFE Certificate from www.fema.gov, and describe the work to mitigate damage and maintain operations during a flood event. Click here to enter text. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 7 (9/6/2022) Does the project contain imaging equipment used for diagnostic or treatment purposes? If yes, describe the equipment to be provided and or replaced. Ensure physicist’s letter of certification and report are submitted. Ultrasound. No Physicist letter required. Does the project comply with ADA? If no, list all areas of noncompliance. yes Other pertinent information: Click here to enter text. Project Work Area Response Type of Work Alteration Square footages of existing areas, existing floor and or existing building. 23,476 NSF floor plate Square footages of the proposed work area or areas. Provide the aggregate sum of the work areas. 6,300sf Does the work area exceed more than of the smoke compartment, floor or building? Less than of the floor Sprinkler protection per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code Will be sprinklered as part of the work. Construction Type per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code and NFPA 220 Type 1 (332) Building Height 72’ 4” Building Number of Stories 7 Which edition of FGI is being used for this project? 2018 Edition of FGI Is the proposed work area located in a basement or underground building? Not Applicable Is the proposed work area within a windowless space or building? No Is the building a high rise? No If a high rise, does the building have a generator? No What is the Occupancy Classification per NFPA 101 Life Safety Code? Chapter 38 New Business Occupancy Are there other occupancy classifications that are adjacent to or within this facility? If yes, what are the occupancies and identify these on the plans. Click here to enter text. No Will the project construction be phased? If yes, how many phases and what is the duration for each phase? Click here to enter text. No Does the project contain shell space? If yes, describe proposed shell space and identify Article 28 and non Article 28 shell space on the plans. Click here to enter text. No Will spaces be temporarily relocated during the construction of this project? If yes, where will the temporary space be? Click here to enter text. No Does the temporary space meet the current DOH referenced standards? If no, describe in detail how the space does not comply. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Is there a companion CON associated with the project or temporary space? If so, provide the associated CON number. Click here to enter text. No Will spaces be permanently relocated to allow the construction of this project? If yes, where will this space be? Click here to enter text. No Changes in bed capacity? If yes, enumerate the existing and proposed bed capacities. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Changes in the number of occupants? If yes, what is the new number of occupants? Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Does the facility have an Essential Electrical System (EES)? If yes, which EES Type? Click here to enter text. No If an existing EES Type 1, does it meet NFPA 99 2012 standards? Not Applicable Does the existing EES system have the capacity for the additional electrical loads? Click here to enter text. Not Applicable New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 8 (9/6/2022) Does the project involve Operating Room alterations, renovations, or rehabilitation? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable Does the project involve Bulk Oxygen Systems? If yes, provide brief description. Click here to enter text. Not Applicable If existing, does the Bulk Oxygen System have the capacity for additional loads without bringing in additional supplemental systems? Not Applicable Does the project involve a pool? Not Applicable New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 9 (9/6/2022) REQUIRED ATTACHMENT TABLE SCHEMATIC DESIGN SUBMISSION for CONTINGENT APPROVAL DESIGN DEVELOPMENT SUBMISSION (State Hospital Code Submission) for CONTINGENCY SATISFACTION Title of Attachment File Name in PDF format ● Architectural/Engineering Narrative A/E Narrative.PDF ● Functional Space Program FSP.PDF ● Architect/Engineer Certification Form A/E Cert Form. PDF ● FEMA BFE Certificate FEMA BFE Cert.PDF ● Article 28 Space/Non Article 28 Space Plans CON100.PDF ● ● Site Plans SP100.PDF ● ● Life Safety Plans including level of exit discharge, and NFPA 101 2012 Code Analysis LSC100.PDF ● ● Architectural Floor Plans, Roof Plans and Details. Illustrate FGI compliance on plans. A100.PDF ● ● Exterior Elevations and Building Sections A200.PDF ● ● Vertical Circulation A300.PDF ● ● Reflected Ceiling Plans A400.PDF optional ● Wall Sections and Partition Types A500.PDF optional ● Interior Elevations, Enlarged Plans and Details A600.PDF ● Fire Protection FP100.PDF ● Mechanical Systems M100.PDF ● Electrical Systems E100.PDF ● Plumbing Systems P100.PDF ● Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Report X100.PDF New York State Department of HealthCertificate of Need Application1.) Project Cost Summary data:TotalSourceProject Description:Project Cost$7,186,889Schedule 8b, column C, line 8Total Basic Cost of Construction$7,186,889Schedule 8B, column C, line 6Total Cost of Moveable Equipment$751,889Schedule 8B, column C, line 5.1Cost/Per Square Foot for New ConstructionN/ASchedule 10Cost/Per Square Foot for Renovation Construction$787Schedule10Total Operating Cost $3,961,302Schedule 13C, column BAmount Financed (as $)$0Schedule 9Percentage Financed as % of Total Cost0.Schedule 9Depreciation Life (in years)20 Anticipated Start Date7/15/2025Anticipated Completion Date3/30/2026Schedule 8A Summarized Project Cost and Construction DatesThis schedule is required for all Full or Administrative review applications except Establishment Only applications.2) Construction DatesSchedule 8BDOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 8A 1This schedule is required for all Full or Administrative review applications except Establishment Only applicationsFor renovation, the design contingency will normally be and the construction contingency will be . If your percentages are otherwise, please explain in an attachment.Year used to compute Current Dollars: New York State Department of Health Design Contingency New Construction0.Normally Anticipated Completion of Construction Dateas mm/dd/yyyyDesign Contingency Renovation Work10.Normally Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 8B Total Project Cost For Projects without Subprojects.ConstantsValueCommentsConstruction Contingency Renovation WorkNormally 10.Anticipated Construction Start Date:as mm/dd/yyyyConstruction Contingency New Construction0.Normally Anticipated Midpoint of Construction Dateas mm/dd/yyyyFilename of attachment PDF For new construction and addition, at the schematic stage the design contingency will normally be and the construction contingency will be . If your percentages are otherwise, please explain in an attachment.Subject of attachmentAttachment NumberDOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 8B1New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 8B Total Project Cost For Projects without Subprojects.$At %for monthsEnter Multiplierie: . = .0025 >0.03$215,607$0 ItemProject Cost in Current Dollars Escalation amount to Mid point of Construction Estimated Project Costs ABC1.1 Land Acquisition$0$01.2 Building Acquisition$0Source:Schedule 10 Col. HComputed by applicant(A + B)2.1 New Construction$0$0$0$02.3 Site Development$0$0$02.2 Renovation & Demolition$5,000,000$0$5,000,0002.5 Asbestos Abatement or Removal$33,000$0$33,0002.4 Temporary Utilities$0$0$03.1 Design Contingency$22,000$0$22,0003.2 Construction Contingency$500,000$0$500,0004.2 Planning Consultant Fees$0$0$04.1 Fixed Equipment (NIC)$0$0$04.4 Construction Manager Fees$0$0$04.3 Architect/Engineering Fees$220,000$0$220,000Subtotal (Total 1.1 thru 4.5)$5,925,000$0$5,925,0004.5 Other Fees (Consultant, etc.)$150,000$0$150,000 5.1 Movable Equipment (from Sched 11)$751,889$0$751,8896. Total Basic Cost of Construction (total 1.1 thru 5.2)$7,186,889$0$7,186,8895.2 Telecommunications$510,000$0$510,0007.1 Financing Costs (Points etc)$0$07.2 Interim Interest Expense::$0$0 10 Total Project Cost with fees$7,402,496$0$7,402,496$7,186,8899.2 Additional Fee for projects with capital costs. Not applicable to "Establishment Only" projects. See Web Site for applicable fees. (Line 8, multiplied by the appropriate percentage.)$0$215,6078. Total Project Cost: w/o CON fees Total 6 thru 7.2$7,186,889$0Application fees:$09.1 Application Fee. Articles 28, 36 and 40. See Web Site.DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 8B2ORx 7704General Baseline (Includes Medical Staff)550$433,071 7201Blood Services175$137,795 7903 7920Public Areas715Admitting120$94,488 IHLocationDescription of Functional Code (enter Functional code in Column D, description appears here automatically)Functional Gross SFConstructionCostPER S.F.Current(un escalated)(F x G)ConstructionCostTOTALCurrentsch.8B col.A(un escalated)Sub projectBuilding Floor Functional CodeNew York State Department of Health Certificate of Need Application 7923Lobby/Waiting/Public Entrance890$700,787Schedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution ABDEFGIndicate if this project is:New Construction: For all Full or Administrative review applications, except Establishment Only applications. New Construction and Renovation must be entered on separate sheets (see instructions in line 43). Codes for completing this table are found in the Functional Codes Lookups sheet (see tab below). 7944Medical Supplies/Central Services/Storage225$177,1657931Supervising Physicians' Offices (Hospital Physicians involved in 205$161,4177946Staff Lockers75$59,055 7921Cafeteria 7475Nursing O/P Alterations, Scope of work 7508Ultrasound$468,504 7908Medical/Social Services90$70,866 $228,346 595 $562,992 250$196,850 Renovation:290DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 1New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution Totals for Whole Project:63505,000,000$ 787.40$ #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A 7 #N/A #N/A 980 #N/AFunctional Code#N/A905Administrative Personnel630$496,063 Other Functions1540$1,212,598 ILocationDescription of Functional Code (enter Functional code in Column D, description appears here automatically)Functional Gross SFConstructionCostPER S.F.Current(un escalated)(F x G)ConstructionCostTOTALCurrentsch.8B col.A(un escalated)Alterations, Scope of work Sub projectEFGHABDBuilding Floor DOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 2New York State Department of Health Certificate of Need ApplicationSchedule 10 Space & Construction Cost Distribution x xJennifer CalinPRINT NAMEJennifer Calin10/2/2024SPMTITLERuralThe section below must be filled out and signed by the applicant, applicant's representative, project architect, project engineer or project estimator.engineer, SIGNATUREDATE2. Check the box that best describes the location of the facilities affected by this project: Dense UrbanOther metropolitan or suburbanIf additional sheets are necessary, go to the toolbar, select "Edit", select "Move or copy sheet", make sure the "create a copy" box is checked, and select this document as the destination for the copy then select "OK". An additional worksheet will be added to this spreadsheetYESNO1. If New Construction is Involved, is it "freestanding?NYNY10016646 799 2901CITYSTATEZIPPHONE NUMBERNAME OF FIRMNYULHSTREET & NUMBEROne Park AveDOH 155 B(06/2020)Schedule 10Page 3DatasheetThe following items that have the same product association in your project are represented with individual datasheets due to differentiatingattributes for the same product in your project.Attribute(s) impacted will be denoted by an asterisk (*) for different values and italics for custom values if multiple instances are listed.# of DatasheetsProductQuantityPage #Atta3 IDAtta IDRef ID 1Ref ID 2CAD IDAlt IDMFRModelCategorySubcategory2510GLV DC486 6364 013GLV0048Omnimed, Inc305302 1Stainless SteelDispenser,GloveTriple Box2237REF 365B39589 004REF1794Follett LLCREF4PRefrigeratorMedical Grade,Undercounter2241TBL 59B0D5936 006TBL0179MidmarkCorporation MedicalRitter 230Universal(Receptacle,Seamless Top)Table,Exam/TreatmentPowered2248WMR EAD81 4666 017WMR0088ParkerLaboratoriesInc.Thermasonic 82 03 LED (3 Bottle) WarmerGel/Wax/LotionGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 1 of 52 Width (in.): 10.8120Depth (in.): 4.9370Height (in.): 14.0620Product Weight (lbs): 5.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Category: DispenserSubcategory: Paper Towel, Surface MountManufacturer:Catalog #:Atta 3 ID: DSP 38E68Atta ID: 6084 000JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: YesPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 2 of 52 Width (in.): 15.2500Depth (in.): 22.7500Height (in.): 31.0000Product Weight (lbs): 30.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Category: Disposal, SharpsSubcategory: Floor CartManufacturer:Catalog #:Atta 3 ID: DIS AA09DAtta ID: 6457 000JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 3 of 52 Width (in.): 23.5000Depth (in.): 23.5000Height (in.): 23.7500Product Weight (lbs): 16.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Category: StoolSubcategory: Exam, Cushion SeatManufacturer:Catalog #:Atta 3 ID: STL E3828Atta ID: 4414 000JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 4 of 52 Width (in.):Depth (in.):Height (in.):Product Weight (lbs):Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting:Left (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic:OPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: N/AConnection Type: N/ANetwork: N/ASystem: N/ATechnical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: N/AHz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.:BTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit:Plug Type:Plug Detail:Electrical Phase:Water Cold:Water Hot:Water Treated:Drain:Drain Location:Steam:Vacuum Den. / Med.: /Gas Type: N/AGas Location:Medical Gas:Vent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type:Plumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Category: DispenserSubcategory: Paper Towel, Surface MountManufacturer:Catalog #: 09746Atta 3 ID: DSP 5EAAEAtta ID: F 2099779F28JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA:Antimicrobial:Green:Physical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 5 of 52 Width (in.): 35.0000Depth (in.): 29.0000Height (in.): 41.0000Product Weight (lbs): 110.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork: N/ASystem: N/ATechnical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:1201 LU/XT Tall HeightCategory: Chair, ClinicalSubcategory: Blood DrawManufacturer:Custom Comfort MedtekCatalog #: 1201 LU/XTAtta 3 ID: CHA 26FB1Atta ID: 3600 008JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 6 of 52 Width (in.): 16.7000Depth (in.): 10.6000Height (in.): 21.1000Product Weight (lbs): 7.9500Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:1883456 Slim Jim Front Step 8 Gal./BeigeCategory: Waste CanSubcategory: Step OnManufacturer:Rubbermaid Commercial ProductsCatalog #: 1883456Atta 3 ID: WST 02BD9Atta ID: 4920 091JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 7 of 52 Width (in.): 16.7000Depth (in.): 10.6000Height (in.): 21.2000Product Weight (lbs): 6.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:1883564 Slim Jim Front Step 8 Gal RedCategory: Waste CanSubcategory: Bio HazardousManufacturer:Rubbermaid Commercial ProductsCatalog #: 1883564Atta 3 ID: WST F4C1FAtta ID: 4687 070JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 8 of 52 Width (in.): 22.4000Depth (in.): 13.9000Height (in.): 32.5000Product Weight (lbs): 13.4000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:1883570 Slim Jim Resin Front Step 24 Gal/RedCategory: Waste CanSubcategory: Bio HazardousManufacturer:Rubbermaid Commercial ProductsCatalog #: 1883570Atta 3 ID: WST 46913Atta ID: 4687 063JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 9 of 52 Width (in.): 9.7500Depth (in.): 3.5000Height (in.): 15.0000Product Weight (lbs): 4.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:305302 1 Stainless SteelCategory: Dispenser, GloveSubcategory: Triple BoxManufacturer:Omnimed, IncCatalog #: 305302 *Atta 3 ID: GLV DC486Atta ID: 6364 013JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 10 of 52 Width (in.): 9.7500Depth (in.): 3.5000Height (in.): 15.0000Product Weight (lbs): 4.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:305302 1 Stainless SteelCategory: Dispenser, GloveSubcategory: Triple BoxManufacturer:Omnimed, IncCatalog #: 305302 1 *Atta 3 ID: GLV DC486Atta ID: 6364 013JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 11 of 52 Width (in.): 23.0000Depth (in.): 23.0000Height (in.): 46.0000Product Weight (lbs): 14.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:767 Mobile Aneroid w/ Adult CuffCategory: SphygmomanometerSubcategory: Aneroid, MobileManufacturer:Baxter Hillrom, Welch Allyn, Inc.Catalog #: 7670 03Atta 3 ID: SPH A8FEDAtta ID: 4347 001JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 12 of 52 Width (in.): 34.5700Depth (in.): 9.6500Height (in.): 12.6800Product Weight (lbs): 21.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 110Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 5.0000Amps: 0.0500Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:777 PM3WCX USCategory: Diagnostic SystemSubcategory: IntegratedManufacturer:Baxter Hillrom, Welch Allyn, Inc.Catalog #: 777 PM3WCX USAtta 3 ID: IDS 98803Atta ID: 8794 035JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 13 of 52 Width (in.): 16.5000Depth (in.): 6.0000Height (in.): 15.0000Product Weight (lbs): 12.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: YesOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Basic Surface MountedCategory: Cabinet, Storage, ClinicalSubcategory: DefibrillatorManufacturer:Philips Healthcare CardiologyCatalog #: 989803136531Atta 3 ID: CST BF7C5Atta ID: 7347 002JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 14 of 52 Width (in.): 14.5000Depth (in.): 5.7500Height (in.): 15.2500Product Weight (lbs): 14.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Bio Systems C 02RES 0203 w/ CabinetCategory: Disposal, SharpsSubcategory: Wall MountManufacturer:StericycleCatalog #: C 02RES 0203 / OC 02 2004Atta 3 ID: DIS BDBC4Atta ID: 3723 034JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 15 of 52 Width (in.): 14.5000Depth (in.): 5.7500Height (in.): 15.5000Product Weight (lbs): 12.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Bio Systems C 02RES 0203 OCCategory: Disposal, SharpsSubcategory: Wall MountManufacturer:StericycleCatalog #: C 02RES 0203 OCAtta 3 ID: DIS 41984Atta ID: 3723 024JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 16 of 52 Width (in.): 13.7500Depth (in.): 7.7500Height (in.): 21.2500Product Weight (lbs): 13.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Bio Systems C 04RES 04 w/Locking BracketCategory: Disposal, SharpsSubcategory: Wall MountManufacturer:StericycleCatalog #: C 04RES 04/WB 04Atta 3 ID: DIS 78E5EAtta ID: 3723 035JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 17 of 52 Width (in.): 23.0000Depth (in.): 23.0000Height (in.): 55.0000Product Weight (lbs): 24.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:C PHL 1320HCategory: Cart, ProcedureSubcategory: PhlebotomyManufacturer:CentiCare CorporationCatalog #: C PHL 1320HAtta 3 ID: PRC 4E5A0Atta ID: 7026 025JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: YesGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 18 of 52 Width (in.): 6.7000Depth (in.): 10.7000Height (in.): 7.5000Product Weight (lbs): 5.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 110Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Clinitek Status Connect SystemCategory: Analyzer, LabSubcategory: Urinalysis, Semi AutomatedManufacturer:Siemens Healthcare DiagnosticsCatalog #: 1797Atta 3 ID: ANA 336BFAtta ID: 6133 015JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 19 of 52 Width (in.): 16.7500Depth (in.): 10.0000Height (in.): 5.7500Product Weight (lbs): 8.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 30.0000Amps: 2.5000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Corometrics 170Category: Monitor, O.B.Subcategory: Antepartum, FetalManufacturer:GE Healthcare Monitoring SystemsCatalog #: 2091059 001 502985Atta 3 ID: MOB 81C8EAtta ID: 6297 013JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 20 of 52 Width (in.): 20.9000Depth (in.): 24.8000Height (in.): 17.3000Product Weight (lbs): 126.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 1400.0000Amps: 12.0000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:EZ11PLUS with PrinterCategory: SterilizerSubcategory: CountertopManufacturer:Tuttnauer USA Co, Ltd.Catalog #: EZ11PLUS PAtta 3 ID: STE 6CEA2Atta ID: 4384 053JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 21 of 52 Width (in.):Depth (in.):Height (in.):Product Weight (lbs):Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting:Left (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic:OPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: N/AConnection Type: N/ANetwork: N/ASystem: N/ATechnical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: N/AHz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.:BTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit:Plug Type:Plug Detail:Electrical Phase:Water Cold:Water Hot:Water Treated:Drain:Drain Location:Steam:Vacuum Den. / Med.: /Gas Type: N/AGas Location:Medical Gas:Vent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type:Plumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:EarlyVue VS30Category: Monitor, PhysiologicSubcategory: Vital SignsManufacturer:Catalog #:Atta 3 ID: MON 35B42Atta ID: F EB4C6264C9JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Unassigned /UnassignedSpatial Sig: NoADA:Antimicrobial:Green:Physical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 22 of 52 Width (in.): 22.5000Depth (in.): 22.5000Height (in.): 51.0550Product Weight (lbs): 13.2250Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 60.0000Amps: 0.5000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:EarlyVue VS30 w/ Premium RollstandCategory: Monitor, PhysiologicSubcategory: Vital Signs, w/StandManufacturer:Philips Healthcare Monitoring SystemsCatalog #: 863380/989803176601Atta 3 ID: MON D2112Atta ID: 4071 092JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 23 of 52 Width (in.):Depth (in.):Height (in.):Product Weight (lbs):Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting:Left (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic:OPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: N/AConnection Type: N/ANetwork: N/ASystem: N/ATechnical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: N/AHz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: YesOther Volts Avail.:BTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit:Plug Type:Plug Detail:Electrical Phase:Water Cold:Water Hot:Water Treated:Drain:Drain Location:Steam:Vacuum Den. / Med.: /Gas Type: N/AGas Location:Medical Gas:Vent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type:Plumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:FZR4P KP 00 ADA Performance Plus w/KeypadCategory: FreezerSubcategory: Laboratory, UndercounterManufacturer:Catalog #:Atta 3 ID: FRZ 4CED1Atta ID: F 7A434DDC5DJSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA:Antimicrobial:Green:Physical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 24 of 52 Width (in.): 30.0000Depth (in.): 9.5000Height (in.): 11.7500Product Weight (lbs): 25.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: YesOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 22.0000Amps: 0.2000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Green Series 777 [77791 2MPX]Category: Diagnostic SystemSubcategory: IntegratedManufacturer:Baxter Hillrom, Welch Allyn, Inc.Catalog #: 77791 2MPXAtta 3 ID: IDS C67FCAtta ID: 8794 002JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: YesPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 25 of 52 Width (in.): 3.9400Depth (in.): 3.1500Height (in.): 10.8300Product Weight (lbs): 5.3000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 36.0000Amps: 0.3000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Green Series Exam Light IVCategory: Light, Exam/ProcedureSubcategory: Single, Table MountManufacturer:Baxter Hillrom, Welch Allyn, Inc.Catalog #: 48810 M4001Atta 3 ID: LIG 07E73Atta ID: 3958 010JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: YesPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 26 of 52 Width (in.): 28.7400Depth (in.): 28.7400Height (in.): 50.0000Product Weight (lbs): 30.8600Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:HAG Capisco 8106 w/Rubber Casters (Hard Floors)Category: Chair, ClinicalSubcategory: Exam, UltrasoundManufacturer:Sound Ergonomics LLCCatalog #: CECSAtta 3 ID: CHA 20CFCAtta ID: 8117 004JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: YesPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 27 of 52 Width (in.): 23.5000Depth (in.): 19.5000Height (in.): 42.5000Product Weight (lbs): 26.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:HAG Capisco Saddle Seat w/BackCategory: Chair, ClinicalSubcategory: Exam, UltrasoundManufacturer:izzy+ (Out of Business)Catalog #: H8106Atta 3 ID: CHA E2031Atta ID: 8117 003JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: YesPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 28 of 52 Width (in.): 9.0000Depth (in.): 7.2500Height (in.): 2.5000Product Weight (lbs): 4.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:HeartStart FRxCategory: DefibrillatorSubcategory: Automatic, AdvisoryManufacturer:Philips Healthcare CardiologyCatalog #: 861304Atta 3 ID: DFB AD072Atta ID: 5088 001JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 29 of 52 Width (in.): 15.0000Depth (in.): 17.0000Height (in.): 9.0000Product Weight (lbs): 39.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 220.0000Amps: 1.9000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Horizon 24 FlexCategory: CentrifugeSubcategory: General Purpose, CountertopManufacturer:Drucker DiagnosticsCatalog #: 00 384 009 000Atta 3 ID: CEN ED3BEAtta ID: 3598 160JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 30 of 52 Width (in.): 14.2000Depth (in.): 12.4000Height (in.): 4.5000Product Weight (lbs): 7.9360Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 75.0000Amps: 0.6200Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:MAC 5 A4Category: Electrocardiograph (ECG)Subcategory: InterpretiveManufacturer:GE Healthcare CardiologyCatalog #:Atta 3 ID: ECG 2009AAtta ID: 3768 097JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 31 of 52 Width (in.):Depth (in.):Height (in.):Product Weight (lbs):Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting:Left (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic:OPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: N/AConnection Type: N/ANetwork: N/ASystem: N/ATechnical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: N/AHz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.:BTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit:Plug Type:Plug Detail:Electrical Phase:Water Cold:Water Hot:Water Treated:Drain:Drain Location:Steam:Vacuum Den. / Med.: /Gas Type: N/AGas Location:Medical Gas:Vent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type:Plumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:N7516Category: Stand, IVSubcategory: ChromeManufacturer:Catalog #: N7516Atta 3 ID: IVS 85438Atta ID: F B98EACED54JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA:Antimicrobial:Green:Physical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 32 of 52 Width (in.): 21.2500Depth (in.): 16.2500Height (in.): 53.0000Product Weight (lbs): 34.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:P 1069 A SS (16x21 tray)Category: Stand, MayoSubcategory: Thumb OperatedManufacturer:Pedigo Products, IncCatalog #: P 1069 A SSAtta 3 ID: MAY 3E9E9Atta ID: 6262 007JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 33 of 52 Width (in.): 7.0000Depth (in.): 5.2500Height (in.): 11.7500Product Weight (lbs): 2.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Provon FMX 20 Dove Gray (5260 06)Category: DispenserSubcategory: Soap, Wall MountManufacturer:GOJO IndustriesCatalog #: 5260 06Atta 3 ID: DSP CCE7CAtta ID: 5868 063JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: YesAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 34 of 52 Width (in.): 6.0000Depth (in.): 4.0500Height (in.): 10.5800Product Weight (lbs): 2.1900Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Provon TFX Touch Free (2745 12)Category: DispenserSubcategory: Soap, Wall MountManufacturer:GOJO IndustriesCatalog #: 2745 12Atta 3 ID: DSP 1FB23Atta ID: 5868 036JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: YesAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 35 of 52 Width (in.): 6.0000Depth (in.): 4.0500Height (in.): 10.5800Product Weight (lbs): 2.1900Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: WallLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Purell TFX Touch Free (2720 12)Category: DispenserSubcategory: Hand Sanitizer, Wall MountManufacturer:GOJO IndustriesCatalog #: 2720 12Atta 3 ID: DSP 55C2FAtta ID: 5869 012JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 01 Fixed EquipmentCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / ContractorSpatial Sig: NoADA: YesAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 36 of 52 Width (in.): 23.7500Depth (in.): 27.0000Height (in.): 31.3800Product Weight (lbs): 170.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: Yes *Other Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: 2185.0000Watts: 472.0000Amps: 4.1000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: 2185.0000Dissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:REF4PCategory: RefrigeratorSubcategory: Medical Grade, UndercounterManufacturer:Follett LLCCatalog #: REF4P *Atta 3 ID: REF 365B3Atta ID: 9589 004JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: YesAntimicrobial: YesGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 37 of 52 Width (in.): 23.7500Depth (in.): 27.0000Height (in.): 31.3800Product Weight (lbs): 170.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: No *Other Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: 2185.0000Watts: 472.0000Amps: 4.1000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: 2185.0000Dissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:REF4PCategory: RefrigeratorSubcategory: Medical Grade, UndercounterManufacturer:Follett LLCCatalog #: REF4P KP 00 *Atta 3 ID: REF 365B3Atta ID: 9589 004JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: YesAntimicrobial: YesGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 38 of 52 Width (in.): 3.0000Depth (in.): 6.2000Height (in.): 1.4000Product Weight (lbs): 0.8120Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Rad 5 (SpO2 Only)Category: OximeterSubcategory: Pulse, Hand HeldManufacturer:Masimo Corp.Catalog #: 9196Atta 3 ID: OXM 6C65CAtta ID: 4109 019JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 39 of 52 Width (in.): 28.0000Depth (in.): 76.0000Height (in.): 37.0000Product Weight (lbs): 409.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: YesOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 1323.0000Amps: 11.5000Circuit: YesPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Ritter 225 Barrier Free (Seamless Top)Category: Table, Exam/TreatmentSubcategory: PoweredManufacturer:Midmark Corporation MedicalCatalog #: 225 003/002 2009 XXXAtta 3 ID: TBL 439E0Atta ID: 5936 012JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: YesADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 40 of 52 Width (in.): 28.0000Depth (in.): 84.0000Height (in.): 40.0000Product Weight (lbs): 455.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 1150.0000Amps: 10.0000Circuit: YesPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Ritter 230 Universal (Receptacle, Seamless Top)Category: Table, Exam/TreatmentSubcategory: PoweredManufacturer:Midmark Corporation MedicalCatalog #: 230 002/002 0824Atta 3 ID: TBL 59B0DAtta ID: 5936 006JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 41 of 52 Width (in.): 28.0000Depth (in.): 84.0000Height (in.): 40.0000Product Weight (lbs): 455.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: YesOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 1150.0000Amps: 10.0000Circuit: YesPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Ritter 230 Universal (Receptacle, Seamless Top)Category: Table, Exam/TreatmentSubcategory: PoweredManufacturer:Midmark Corporation MedicalCatalog #: 230 002/002 0824Atta 3 ID: TBL 59B0DAtta ID: 5936 006JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 42 of 52 Width (in.): 13.0000Depth (in.): 13.0000Height (in.): 60.0000Product Weight (lbs): 20.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 115Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 13.8000Amps: 0.1200Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Ritter 250 LED w/StandCategory: Light, Exam/ProcedureSubcategory: Single, FloorManufacturer:Midmark Corporation MedicalCatalog #: 250 002Atta 3 ID: LIG 5F019Atta ID: 3963 047JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 43 of 52 Width (in.): 17.9000Depth (in.): 11.5000Height (in.): 28.3000Product Weight (lbs): 8.5000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Slim Jim Resin Front Step 13 Gal/BeigeCategory: Waste CanSubcategory: Step OnManufacturer:Rubbermaid Commercial ProductsCatalog #: 1883458Atta 3 ID: WST B15B2Atta ID: 4920 087JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 44 of 52 Width (in.): 11.0000Depth (in.): 22.0000Height (in.): 25.0000Product Weight (lbs): 7.8000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Slim Jim Vented 16 Gal/GrayCategory: Waste CanSubcategory: Open TopManufacturer:Rubbermaid Commercial ProductsCatalog #: 1971258Atta 3 ID: WST 4A1F8Atta ID: 4688 081JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 45 of 52 Width (in.): 3.1000Depth (in.): 1.1800Height (in.): 5.8000Product Weight (lbs): 0.4900Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 110Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 66.0000Amps: 0.6000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:StatStrip Wireless Glucose Hospital Mtr w/Dock StnCategory: Analyzer, LabSubcategory: Glucose, Point of CareManufacturer:Nova BiomedicalCatalog #: 54790 / 53400Atta 3 ID: ANA DE601Atta ID: 3355 011JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 46 of 52 Width (in.): 48.0000Depth (in.): 24.0000Height (in.): 74.5000Product Weight (lbs): 136.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: YesOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Super Erecta Stainless 48x24x74 (5 Tier)Category: ShelvingSubcategory: Solid, Stainless Steel, 48 inchManufacturer:InterMetro Industries CorpCatalog #: (5)2448NFS/(4)74PSAtta 3 ID: SHL BA315Atta ID: 8865 003JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 03 Movable Non ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: Non MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: YesADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 47 of 52 Width (in.): 7.2500Depth (in.): 4.5000Height (in.): 8.5000Product Weight (lbs): 3.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 20.0000Amps: 0.1700Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Thermasonic 82 03 LED (3 Bottle)Category: WarmerSubcategory: Gel/Wax/LotionManufacturer:Parker Laboratories Inc.Catalog #: 82 03Atta 3 ID: WMR EAD81Atta ID: 4666 017JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 48 of 52 Width (in.): 7.2500Depth (in.): 4.5000Height (in.): 8.5000Product Weight (lbs): 3.0000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Counter/Cart/Table/PoleLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 31.0000Amps: 0.2600Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Thermasonic 82 03 LED (3 Bottle)Category: WarmerSubcategory: Gel/Wax/LotionManufacturer:Parker Laboratories Inc.Catalog #: 82 03Atta 3 ID: WMR EAD81Atta ID: 4666 017JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 49 of 52 Width (in.): 21.0000Depth (in.): 22.5000Height (in.): 57.5000Product Weight (lbs): 101.5000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: 720.0000Amps: 6.0000Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Trophon 2 w/Printer, CartCategory: Washer/DisinfectorSubcategory: TransducerManufacturer:Nanosonics Inc.Catalog #: N05000/N00048 NNA/N05010Atta 3 ID: WSR 3BBA0Atta ID: 8793 006JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 50 of 52 Width (in.): 22.8000Depth (in.): 37.0000Height (in.): 65.7000Product Weight (lbs): 324.1000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: Floor MobileLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: DataNetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts: 120Hz: 60KVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: YesBTU/hr: 2730.0000Watts: 800.0000Amps: 6.6600Circuit: NoPlug Type: Type B (Nema 5 15)Plug Detail:Electrical Phase: Single PhaseWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: 2730.0000Dissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:Voluson E10 BT21Category: Ultrasound, ImagingSubcategory: OB/GYNManufacturer:GE Healthcare Imaging SystemsCatalog #:Atta 3 ID: ULT E14AFAtta ID: 5479 030JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: YesArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 51 of 52 Width (in.): 16.1000Depth (in.): 22.7000Height (in.): 53.4000Product Weight (lbs): 28.9000Max Operating Weight (lbs):Mounting: FloorLeft (in.): N/ARight (in.): N/AFront (in.): N/ABack (in.): N/ATop (in.): N/ABottom (in.): N/ASpecification notes:Seismic: NoOPA #:Pre Approval:Structural notes:Patient Data: NoConnection Type: N/ANetwork:System:Technical Connection notes:Electrical notes:Volts:Hz: N/AKVA:UPS: N/AEmerg. Power: NoOther Volts Avail.: NoBTU/hr: N/AWatts: N/AAmps: N/ACircuit: NoPlug Type: N/APlug Detail:Electrical Phase: N/AWater Cold: NoWater Hot: NoWater Treated: NoDrain: NoDrain Location:Steam: NoVacuum Den. / Med.: No/NoGas Type:Gas Location:Medical Gas: NoVent Type:Heat Dissipation: N/ADissipation Type: ActualPlumbing notes:Mechanical notes:DatasheetNYU Langone HospitalsModel:seca 797 KG onlyCategory: Scale, ClinicalSubcategory: Adult, Digital, FloorManufacturer:Seca CorporationCatalog #: 7971721004Atta 3 ID: SCL FB8C1Atta ID: 4266 189JSN:RefID 1:RefID 2:General Production DetailArch Sig: NoArch Code: 02 Movable ElectricalCritical Path: NoType: MedicalFurnish Install: Owner / OwnerSpatial Sig: NoADA: NoAntimicrobial: NoGreen: NoPhysical RequirementsStructural RequirementsTechnology RequirementsElectrical RequirementsUtility RequirementsGenerated 09/30/2024 17:50 UTCPLAN IT | PROJECT Powered by Attainia, Inc.Page 52 of 52 NYU Long IslandWomen's WellnessSchedule 13 B 1: StaffingStaffing CategoriesCurrent YearFirst Year Total Budget Third Year Total Budget1. Management & Supervision 2. Technican & Specialist 3. Registered Nurses 4. Licensed Practice Nurses 5. Aides, Orderlies, & Attendants 6. Physicians 7. PGY physicians 8. Physicians' Assistants 9. Nurse Practitioners 10. Nurse Midwife 11. Social Workers & Psychologist 12. Physical Therapists & PT Assistants 13. Occupational Therapists & OT Assistants 14. Speech Therapists & Speech Assistants 15. Other Therapists and Assistants 16. Infection Control, Environmental & Food Service 17. Clerical & Other Administrative 18. Other Private Practices, Non Reimb Personnel 19. Other Health Prof 20. Other Dieticians Total24.5 25.0 30.2 13B 1DOH 155 D Schedule 16 cover (11/2019) Schedule 16 CON Forms Specific to Hospitals Article 28 Contents: o Schedule 16 A Hospital Program Information o Schedule 16 B Hospital Community Need o Schedule 16 C Impact of CON Application on Hospital Operating Certificate o Schedule 16 D Hospital Outpatient Departments o Schedule 16 E Hospital Utilization o Schedule 16 F Hospital Facility Access New York State Department of Health Schedule 16A Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16A 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 A. Hospital Program Information See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Instructions: Briefly indicate how the facility intends to comply with state and federal regulations specific to the services requested, such as cardiac surgery, bone marrow transplants. For clinic services, please include the hours of service for each day of operation, name of the hospital providing back up services (indicating the travel time and distance from the clinic) and how the facility intends to provide quality oversight including credentialing, utilization and quality assurance monitoring. The NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Women's Wellness Center is an existing Extension Clinic certified under Article 28 of the the New York State Public Health Laws. Through implementation of this project, the LI Women's Health Center will continue to comply with federal and state regulations pertaining to the patient care environment. Please also refer to the Executive Summary and the Architectural Narrative. Both documents provide details concerning this project. For Hospital Based Ambulatory Surgery Projects: Please provide a list of ambulatory surgery categories you intend to provide. List of Proposed Ambulatory Surgery Category N/A For Hospital Based Ambulatory Surgery Projects: Please provide the following information: Number and Type of Operating Rooms: • Current: 0 • To be added: 0 • Total ORs upon Completion of the Project: 0 Number and Type of Procedure Rooms: • Current: 0 • To be added: 0 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16A Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16A 2 (11/2019) • Total Procedure Rooms upon Completion of the Project: 0 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 B. Community Need See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Public Need Summary: Briefly summarize on this schedule why the project is needed. Use additional paper, as necessary. If the following items have been addressed in the project narrative, please cite the relevant section and pages. 1. Identify the relevant service area (e.g., Minor Civil Division(s), Census Tract(s), street boundaries, Zip Code(s), Health Professional Shortage Area (HPSA) etc.) The relevant service area for this project is Nassau County. 2. Provide a quantitative and qualitative description of the population to be served. Data may include median income, ethnicity, payor mix, etc. According to the New York State Department of Health, the 2022 population of Nassau County was 1,383,726 with 50.79 % being female and of these were aged 65 years of age and older. of the patients using this clinic identified as being Hispanic/Latina and identified as Black. 3. Document the current and projected demand for the proposed service in the population you plan to serve. If the proposed service is covered by a DOH need methodology, demonstrate how the proposed service is consistent with it. Currently, there were 12,465 visits at this location and the visit volume is expected to increase to 14,636 after the first year and to 17,070 by year 3. 4. (a) Describe how this project responds to and reflects the needs of the residents in the community you propose to serve. This project will continue to provide the current servies at its new location, but will co locate the Women's Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic. This co location will enhance the patient experience for several medically underserved groups by providng immediate and easy access to multiple healthcare services for families in one convenient location. The Women's Wellness Clinic will be located next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic, allowing women and theiir children to both be seen by clinicians in one location. (b) Will the proposed project serve all patients needing care regardless of their ability to pay or the source of payment? If so, please provide such a statement. The proposed project will serve all patients needing care regardless of their ability to pay or the source of payment. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 2 (11/2019) 5. Describe where and how the population to be served currently receives the proposed services. The population to be served currently receives services at the current location which is the NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Women's Wellness Center which is located at 1 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, NY 11550. This location is licensed to provide the following services: Family Planning O/P Medical Services Primary Care Prenatal O/P 6. Describe how the proposed services will be address specific health problems prevalent in the service area, including any special experience, programs or methods that will be implemented to address these health issues. The project proposes relocating the Women’s Wellness Clinic half a mile down the street, from 1 Fulton Avenue to the 7th floor of 175 Fulton Avenue. This move will co locate the Women’s Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic and enable patients to have more convenient, easier access to services for themselves and their children. The services will remain the same. The new location has an existing parking deck, which provides more parking than the current location’s surface lot. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 3 (11/2019) ONLY for Hospital Applicants submitting Full Review CONs Non Public Hospitals 7. (a) Explain how the proposed project advances local Prevention Agenda priorities identified by the community in the most recently completed Community Health Improvement Plan (CHIP)/Community Service Plan (CSP). Do not submit the CSP. Please be specific in which priority(ies) is/are being addressed. (b) If the Project does not advance the local Prevention Agenda priorities, briefly summarize how you are advancing local Prevention Agenda priorities. 8. Briefly describe what interventions you are implementing to support local Prevention Agenda goals. 9. Has your organization engaged local community partners in its Prevention Agenda efforts, including the local health department and any local Prevention Agenda coalition? 10. What data from the Prevention Agenda dashboard and/or other metrics are you using to track progress to advance local Prevention Agenda goals? 11. In your most recent Schedule H form submitted to the IRS, did you report any Community Benefit spending in the Community Health Improvement Services category that supports local Prevention Agenda goals? (Y/N question) New York State Department of Health Schedule 16B Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16B 4 (11/2019) ONLY for Hospital Applicants submitting Full Review CONs Public Hospitals 12. Briefly summarize how you are advancing local public health priorities identified by your local health department and other community partners. 13. Briefly describe what interventions you are implementing to support local public health priorities. 14. Have you engaged local community partners, including the local health department, in your efforts to address local public health priorities? 15. What data are you using to track progress in addressing local public health priorities? New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 1 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. C. Impact of CON Application on Hospital Operating Certificate Note: If the application involves an extension clinic, indicate which services should be added or removed from the certificate of the extension clinic alone, rather than for the hospital system as a whole. If multiple sites are involved, complete a separate 16C for each site. TABLE 16C 1 AUTHORIZED BEDS LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Category Code Current Capacity Add Remove Proposed Capacity AIDS 30 BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT 21 BURNS CARE 09 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE DETOX * 12 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB * 13 COMA RECOVERY 26 CORONARY CARE 03 INTENSIVE CARE 02 MATERNITY 05 MEDICAL/SURGICAL 01 NEONATAL CONTINUING CARE 27 NEONATAL INTENSIVE CARE 28 NEONATAL INTERMEDIATE CARE 29 PEDIATRIC 04 PEDIATRIC ICU 10 PHYSICAL MEDICINE & REHABILITATION 07 PRISONER PSYCHIATRIC** 08 RESPIRATORY SPECIAL USE SWING BED PROGRAM TRANSITIONAL CARE 33 TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 11 TOTAL *CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE: Requires additional approval by the Office of Alcohol and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS) **PSYCHIATRIC: Requires additional approval by the Office of Mental Health (OMH) Does the applicant have previously submitted Certificate of Need (CON) applications that have not been completed involving addition or decertification of beds? No Yes (Enter CON number(s) to the right) New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 2 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 2 LICENSED SERVICES FOR HOSPITAL CAMPUSES LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Current Add Remove Proposed MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE 6 MEDICAL SERVICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY MULTI SPECIALTY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER (SPECIFY) CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION ADULT DIAGNOSTIC ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY (EP) PEDIATRIC DIAGNOSTIC PEDIATRIC INTERVENTION ELECTIVE PERCUTANEOUS CORONARY INTERVENTION (PCI) CARDIAC SURGERY ADULT CARDIAC SURGERY PEDIATRIC CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P 1 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB 2 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P 2 CLINIC PART TIME SERVICES COMPREHENSIVE PSYCH EMERGENCY PROGRAM DENTAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT EPILEPSY COMPREHENSIVE SERVICES HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P 2 NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS7 1 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Mental Health in addition to this CON. 2 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services in addition to this CON. 4 DIALYSIS SERVICES require additional approval by Medicare 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators 6 PRIMARY CARE includes one or more of the following: Family Practice, Internal Medicine, Ob/Gyn or Pediatric 7 Must be certified for Home Hemodialysis Training & Support New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 3 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Authorized Beds and Licensed Services Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 2 LICENSED SERVICES (cont.) Current Add Remove Proposed RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC 5 RENAL DIALYSIS, ACUTE RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC [Complete the ESRD section 16C 3(a)&(b) TRANSPLANT HEART ADULT HEART PEDIATRIC KIDNEY LIVER TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 4 (11/2019) The Sites Tab in NYSE CON has replaced the beds and services Tables of Schedule 16C. The Tables in Schedule 16C are only to be used when submitting a Modification, in hardcopy, after approval or contingent approval. TABLE 16C 3 LICENSED SERVICES FOR HOSPITAL EXTENSION CLINICS and OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS LOCATION: (Enter street address of facility) Check if this is a mobile van/clinic Current Add Remove Proposed MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE 6 MEDICAL SERVICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER (SPECIFY) MULTI SPECIALTY CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P 1 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB 2 CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P 2 DENTAL HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT4 INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P 2 NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS7 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC5 RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC [Complete the ESRD section 16C 3(a)&(b) below]4 TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY FOR OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS ONLY8 EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT 1 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Mental Health in addition to this CON. 2 A separate licensure application must be filed with the NYS Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services in addition to this CON. 4 DIALYSIS SERVICES require additional approval by Medicare 5 RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC includes Linear Accelerators 6 PRIMARY CARE includes one or more of the following: Family Practice, Internal Medicine, Ob/Gyn or Pediatric 7 Must be certified for Home Hemodialysis Training & Support 8 OFF CAMPUS EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS must meet all relevant Federal Conditions of Participation for a hospital per CMS S&C 08 08 New York State Department of Health Schedule 16C Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16C 5 (11/2019) END STAGE RENAL DISEASE (ESRD) TABLE 16C 3(a) CAPACITY Existing Add Remove Proposed CHRONIC DIALYSIS If application involves dialysis service with existing capacity, complete the following table: TABLE 16C 3(b) TREATMENTS Last 12 mos 2 years prior 3 years prior CHRONIC DIALYSIS All Chronic Dialysis applicants must provide the following information in compliance with 10 NYCRR 670.6. 1. Provide a five year analysis of projected costs and revenues that demonstrates that the proposed dialysis services will be utilized sufficiently to be financially feasible. 2. Provide evidence that the proposed dialysis services will enhance access to dialysis by patients, including members of medically underserved groups which have traditionally experienced difficulties obtaining access to health care, such as; racial and ethnic minorities, women, disabled persons, and residents of remote rural areas. 3. Provide evidence that the hours of operation and admission policy of the facility will promote the availability of dialysis at times preferred by the patients, particularly to enable patients to continue employment. 4. Provide evidence that the facility is willing to and capable of safely serving patients. 5. Provide evidence that the proposed facility will not jeopardize the quality of care or the financial viability of existing dialysis facilities. This evidence should be derived from analysis of factors including, but not necessarily limited to current and projected referral and use patterns of both the proposed facility and existing facilities. A finding that the proposed facility will jeopardize the financial viability of one or more existing facilities will not of itself require a recommendation to of disapproval. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16D Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16D 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 D. Hospital Outpatient Department Utilization projections a b d f Current Year Visits* First Year Visits* Third Year Visits* CERTIFIABLE SERVICES MEDICAL SERVICES PRIMARY CARE MEDICAL SERICES OTHER MEDICAL SPECIALTIES AMBULATORY SURGERY SINGLE SPECIALTY GASTROENTEROLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY OPHTHALMOLOGY SINGLE SPECIALTY ORTHOPEDICS SINGLE SPECIALTY PAIN MANAGEMENT SINGLE SPECIALTY OTHER MULTI SPECIALTY CARDIAC CATHETERIZATION ADULT DIAGNOSTIC ELECTROPHYSIOLOGY PEDIATRIC DIAGNOSTIC PEDIATRIC INTERVENTION ELECTIVE PERCUTANEOUS CORONARY INTERVENTION (PCI) CERTIFIED MENTAL HEALTH O/P CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE WITHDRAWAL O/P CLINIC PART TIME SERVICES CLINIC SCHOOL BASED SERVICES CLINIC SCHOOL BASED DENTAL PROGRAM COMPREHENSIVE EPILEPSY CENTER COMPREHENSIVE PSYCH EMERGENCY PROGRAM DENTAL EMERGENCY DEPARTMENT HOME PERITONEAL DIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT HOME HEMODIALYSIS TRAINING & SUPPORT INTEGRATED SERVICES MENTAL HEALTH INTEGRATED SERVICES SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER LITHOTRIPSY METHADONE MAINTENANCE O/P NURSING HOME HEMODIALYSIS RADIOLOGY THERAPEUTIC RENAL DIALYSIS, CHRONIC OTHER SERVICES Total Note: In the case of an extension clinic, the service estimates in this table should apply to the site in question, not to the hospital or network as a whole. *The ‘Total’ reported MUST be the SAME as those on Table 13D 4. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16E Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16E 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 E. Utilization/discharge and patient days See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required This schedule is for hospital inpatient projects only. This schedule is required if hospital discharges or patient days will be affected by ± or more, or if this utilization is created for the first time by your proposal. Include only those areas affected by your project. Current year data, as shown in columns 1 and 2, should represent the last complete year before submitting the application. Enter the starting and ending month and year in the column heading. Forecast the first and third years after project completion. The first year is the first twelve months of operation after project completion. Enter the starting and ending month and year being reported in the column headings. For hospital establishment applications and major modernizations, submit a summary business plan to address operations of the facility upon project completion. All appropriate assumptions regarding market share, demand, utilization, payment source, revenue and expense levels, and related matters should be included. Also, include your strategic plan response to the escalating managed care environment. Provide a complete answer and indicate the hospital’s current managed care situation, including identification of contracts and services. NOTE: Prior versions of this table referred to “incremental” changes in discharges and days. The table now requires the full count of discharges and days. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16E Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16E 2 (11/2019) Schedule 16 E. Utilization/Discharge and Patient Days Current Year Start date: 1st Year Start date: 3rd Year Start date: Service (Beds) Classification Discharges Patient Days Discharges Patient Days Discharges Patient Days AIDS BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT BURNS CARE CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE DETOX CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE REHAB COMA RECOVERY CORONARY CARE INTENSIVE CARE MATERNITY MED/SURG NEONATAL CONTINUING CARE NEONATAL INTENSIVE CARE NEONATAL INTERMEDIATE CARE PEDIATRIC PEDIATRIC ICU PHYSICAL MEDICINE & REHABILITATION PRISONER PSYCHIATRIC RESPIRATORY SPECIAL USE SWING BED PROGRAM TRANSITIONAL CARE TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY OTHER (describe) TOTAL NOTE: Prior versions of this table referred to “incremental” changes in discharges and days. The table now requires the full count of discharges and days. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16F Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16F 1 (11/2019) Schedule 16 F. Facility Access See “Schedules Required for Each Type of CON” to determine when this form is required. Complete Table 1 to indicate the method of payment for inpatients and for inpatients and outpatients who were transferred to other health care facilities for the calendar year immediately preceding this application. Start date of year for which data applies (m/c/yyyy): Table 1. Patient Characteristics Total Number of Inpatients Number of Patients Transferred Inpatient OPD ER Payment Source Medicare Blue Cross Medicaid Title V Workers' Compensation Self Pay in Full Other (incl. Partial Pay) Free Commercial Insurance Total Patients Complete Table 2 to indicate the method of payment for outpatients. Table 2. Outpatient Characteristics Emergency Room Outpatient Clinic Community MH Center Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Visits Visits Resulting in Inpatient Admissions Primary Payment Source Medicare Blue Cross Medicaid Title V Workers' Compensation Self Pay in Full Other (incl. Partial Pay) Free Commercial Insurance Total Patients A. Attach a copy of your discharge planning policy and procedures. B. Is your facility a recipient of federal assistance under Title VI or XVI of the Public Health Service? Act (Hill Burton)? Yes No If yes, answer the following questions and attach the most recent report on Hill Burton compliance from the Federal Department of Health and Human Services. New York State Department of Health Schedule 16F Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 D Schedule 16F 2 (11/2019) 1. Is your facility currently obligated to provide uncompensated service under the Public Health Service Act? Yes No If yes, provide details on how your facility has met such requirement for the last three fiscal years including notification of the requirement in a newspaper of general circulation. Also, list any restricted trusts and endowments that were used to provide free, below cost or charity care services to persons unable to pay. 2. With respect to all or any portion of the facility which has been constructed, modernized, or converted with Hill Burton assistance, are the services provided therein available to all persons residing in your facility's service area without discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, creed, or any basis unrelated to an individual's need for the service or the availability of the needed service in the facility? Yes No If no, provide an explanation. 3. Does the facility have a policy or practice of admitting only those patients who are referred by physicians with staff privileges at the facility? Yes No 4. Do Medicaid beneficiaries have full access to all of your facility's health services? Yes No If no, provide a list of services where access by Medicaid beneficiaries is denied or limited. June 2023 New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment Conflict of Interest This Conflict of Interest form must be completed in full, signed by the Independent Entity, and submitted with the Health Equity Impact Assessment. Section 1 Definitions Independent Entity means individual or organization with demonstrated expertise and experience in the study of health equity, anti racism, and community and stakeholder engagement, and with preferred expertise and experience in the study of health care access or delivery of health care services, able to produce an objective written assessment using a standard format of whether, and if so how, the facility’s proposed project will impact access to and delivery of health care services, particularly for members of medically underserved groups. Conflict of Interest shall mean having a financial interest in the approval of an application or assisting in drafting any part of the application on behalf of the facility, other than the health equity assessment. Section 2 Independent Entity What does it mean for the Independent Entity to have a conflict of interest? For the purpose of the Health Equity Impact Assessment, if one or a combination of the following apply to the Independent Entity, the Independent Entity HAS a conflict of interest and must NOT perform the Health Equity Impact Assessment: • The Independent Entity helped compile or write any part of the Certificate of Need (CON) application being submitted for this specific project, other than the Health Equity Impact Assessment (for example, individual(s) hired to compile the Certificate of Need application for the facility’s project cannot be the same individual(s) conducting the Health Equity Impact Assessment); • The Independent Entity has a financial interest in the outcome of this specific project’s Certificate of Need application (i.e. individual is a member of the facility’s Board of Directors or advisory board); or • The Independent Entity has accepted or will accept a financial gift or incentive from the Applicant above fair market value for the cost of performing the Health Equity Impact Assessment. Section 3 General Information A. About the Independent Entity 1. Name of Independent Entity: ______________ 2. Is the Independent Entity a division/unit/branch/associate of an organization (Y/N)?  If yes, indicate the name of the organization: _______________ Deb Zahn Consulting, LLCN June 2023 3. Is the Independent Entity able to produce an objective written Health Equity Impact Assessment on the facility’s proposed project (Y/N)? ________________ 4. Briefly describe the Independent Entity’s previous experience working with the Applicant. Has the Independent Entity performed any work for the Applicant in the last 5 years? YDeb Zahn Consulting, LLC has worked or is working with the Applicant on previous HEIAs. The Independent Entity has not worked with the Applicant in the last 5 years. June 2023 Section 4 Attestation I, _________(individual name), having personal knowledge and the authority to execute this Conflict of Interest form on behalf of ________(INDEPENDENT ENTITY), do hereby attest that the Health Equity Impact Assessment for project _________ (PROJECT NAME) provided for __________ (APPLICANT) has been conducted in an independent manner and without a conflict of interest as defined in Title 10 NYCRR § 400.26. I further attest that the information provided by the INDEPENDENT ENTITY in the Health Equity Impact Assessment is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge, and fulfills the intent of the Health Equity Impact Assessment requirement. Signature of Independent Entity: __________________________ Date: __/__/____ Deborah ZahnDeb Zahn ConsultingLICH Infusion RelocationNYU Langone Health723 2024 June 2023 New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment Requirement Criteria Effective June 22, 2023, a Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) will be required as part of Certificate of Need (CON) applications submitted by facilities (Applicant), pursuant to Public Health Law (PHL) § 2802 b and corresponding regulations at Title 10 New York Codes, Rules and Regulations (NYCRR) § 400.26. This form must be used by the Applicant to determine if a HEIA is required as part of a CON application. Section A. Diagnostic and Treatment Centers (D&TC) This section should only be completed by D&TCs, all other Applicants continue to Section B. Table A. Diagnostic and Treatment Centers for HEIA Requirement Yes No Is the Diagnostic and Treatment Center’s patient population less than patients enrolled in Medicaid and/or uninsured (combined)? Does the Diagnostic and Treatment Center’s CON application include a change in controlling person, principal stockholder, or principal member of the facility? • If you checked “no” for both questions in Table A, you do not have to complete Section B this CON application is considered exempt from the HEIA requirement. This form with the completed Section A is the only HEIA related document the Applicant will submit with this CON application. Submit this form, with the completed Section A, along with the CON application to acknowledge that a HEIA is not required. • If you checked “yes” for either question in Table A, proceed to Section B. Section B. All Article 28 Facilities Table B. Construction or equipment Yes No Is the project minor construction or the purchase of equipment, subject to Limited Review, AND will result in one or more of the following: a. Elimination of services or care, and/or; b. Reduction of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services, or operating hours, and/or; c. Expansion or addition of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services or operating hours? Per the Limited Review Application Instructions: Pursuant to 10 NYCRR 710.1(c)(5), minor construction projects with a total project cost of less than or equal $15,000,000 for general hospitals and N/ANo June 2023 less than or equal to $6,000,000 for all other facilities are eligible for a Limited Review. Establishment of an operator (new or change in ownership) Yes No Is the project an establishment of a new operator or change in ownership of an existing operator providing services or care, AND will result in one or more of the following: a. Elimination of services or care, and/or; b. Reduction of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services, or operating hours, and/or; c. Change in location of services or care? Mergers, consolidations, and creation of, or changes in ownership of, an active parent entity Yes No Is the project a transfer of ownership in the facility that will result in one or more of the following: a. Elimination of services or care, and/or; b. Reduction of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services, or operating hours, and/or; c. Change in location of services or care? Acquisitions Yes No Is the project to purchase a facility that provides a new or similar range of services or care, that will result in one or more of the following: a. Elimination of services or care, and/or; b. Reduction of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services, or operating hours, and/or; c. Change in location of services or care? All Other Changes to the Operating Certificate Yes No Is the project a request to amend the operating certificate that will result in one or more of the following: a. Elimination of services or care; b. Reduction of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services, or operating hours, and/or; c. Expansion or addition of * or greater in the number of certified beds, certified services or operating hours, and/or; d. Change in location of services or care? *Calculate the percentage change from the number of certified/authorized beds and/or certified/authorized services (as indicated on the facility’s operating certificate) specific to the category of service or care. For example, if a residential health care facility adds two ventilator dependent beds and the facility had none previously, this would exceed the threshold. If a hospital removes 5 out of 50 maternity certified/authorized beds, this would meet the threshold. • If you checked “yes” for one or more questions in Table B, the following HEIA documents are required to be completed and submitted along with the CON application: o HEIA Requirement Criteria with Section B completed o HEIA Conflict of Interest YesNoNoNo June 2023 o HEIA Contract with Independent Entity o HEIA Template o HEIA Data Tables o Full version of the CON Application with redactions, to be shared publicly • If you checked “no” for all questions in Table B, this form with the completed Section B is the only HEIA related document the Applicant will submit with this CON application. Submit this form, with the completed Section B, along with the CON application to acknowledge that a HEIA is not required.


NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Meaningful EngagementIdentifier (i.e., Patient A, Employee B, Respondent 1) or Name (only if requested by stakeholder)Date(s) of outreach What required stakeholder group did they represent?Is this person/organization a resident of the project’s service area? Method of engagement (i.e., phone calls, community forums, focus groups, surveys, etc.) Is this person/organization supportive of this project?Did this person/organization provide a statement?If permission is granted to share a statement or quote (250 word max), please include below:Respondent 0016/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesNoRespondent 0026/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesIt is good for me to bring this location there because it’s close to everybody. It’s easy for me to deal my kids and my own appointments. Also, I would like to have them there closer and also another specialist. It will be nice for the town and all the people and really happy to have them closer. And it’s going to be a good thing to do and be part of this situation, like relocating this office is nice. It’s gonna be convenient for all the people.Respondent 0036/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesYes, I am in agreement with this because there are stores there which makes it easier for me to buy things once I am there for my appointment.Respondent 0046/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesYes it is a good idea if this place is too small will want it bigger. I think the patient will be happy. So I am thankful. Respondent 0056/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesYa estoy de acuerdo que se mueve por mis porque, pues, va a haber más facilidad para poder venir a la cita. Por si tenemos un bebé, ya primero podríamos entrar a consultas con el bebé, luego con nosotros, y así no tendríamos que estar un día por 1. Y luego, por el otro, el bebé, y se nos haría más fácil. Translation: I already agree that it is for me because, well, it will be easier to come to the appointment. In case we have a baby, we could first go in for consultations with the baby, then with ourselves, and that way we wouldn't have to be there one day for 1. And then, for the other, the baby, and it would be easier for us.Patient 0066/17/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesNo show (see Notes)Respondent 0076/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesNo show (see Notes)Respondent 0086/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYes[Translated from Hatian Creole by the NYU Langauge Line Translation Services: Once everything is all together, once all the staff is together is it easier rather than going to multiple addresses for multiple appointments in one day you have them all in one place in one spot.Respondent 0096/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesSí, estoy de acuerdo que la misma mudanza, porque considero que el lugar va a ser un poco más amplio. Va a ser más cómodo. Vamos a tener más acceso al estacionamiento. y siempre cómo se siente bien realmente Me siento bien como persona, llegar a esta clínica, y si va a ser por una mejoría. No, yo apoyo al 100. / Translation: Yes, I agree with the move, because I consider that the place it’s going to be will be a little larger. It will be more comfortable. We are going to have more access to parking. and always how good it really feels. I feel good as a person coming to this clinic, and if it is going to be for an improvement, I support it .Page 1 of 2NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Meaningful EngagementRespondent 0106/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesEn cuanto a lo de la mudanza de la clínica, me parece muy bien, porque para mí como vivo cerca, entonces me quedaría más cerca del lugar donde yo vivo para transportarme, además que en la clínica donde llevo mis niños está ahí mismo, entonces ya no tendría que andar en diferentes lugares por mi cita y por mis hijos. Entonces ya así puede hacer citas como para el mismo día, porque estarían en el mismo lugar, solo que trataría de acomodar las horas para la cita de los niños y tanto para las mías. /Translation: As for moving the clinic, it seems very good to me, because for me, since I live nearby, then I would stay closer to the place where I live for transportation, plus the clinic where I take my children is right there, so I would no longer have to go to different places for my appointments and my children’s. So now you can make appointments for the same day, because they would be in the same place, only that I would try to accommodate the times for the children's appointment and both for mine.Patient 0116/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesNo show (see Notes)Respondent 0126/18/2024residents of the project’s service areaYesIn PersonYesYesComo ya le dije, de que me queda más cerca, si me ven en cuenta si me cobran menos. Ya si me vengo caminando también o menos, entonces porque ya hasta acá le cobra más el taxi oro. Entonces ya está ahí, Es un dólar menos. Entonces, para mí, estoy de acuerdo. / Translation: As I already told you, it's closer to me, if they (taxis) take it into account, they charge me less. Now if I come walking, same, it’ll be less [to walk]. Because to come to here [current location], the taxi charges more. So to there [new location], it's a dollar less. So for me, I agree [with the move].”Respondent 0136/25/2024public health expertsYesZoom interviewYesNoRespondent 0146/26/2024public health expertsYesZoom interviewYesYesYou know, I appreciate that the state and the facility is asking our opinion in the 1st place and I also appreciate in this particular instance, that you know the co locating of the 2 practices together, and the thoughtfulness of the location, is just like, this is a best case scenario, I think, for any move that might take place. You know it's not moving too far. It's added value. And I just think, I appreciate that NYU has taken the time, I'm sure they thought this out and someone planned it out this way, and I think it's great. Respondent 0156/27/2024public health expertsYesZoom interviewYesNoPage 2 of 2NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total population26,138±96226,138(X)47,515±2,52147,515(X)25,751±1,88525,751(X)Male13,276±65550.±1.623,509±1,55949.±1.412,576±1,14948.±1.9Female12,862±63149.±1.624,006±1,26050.±1.413,175±96751.±1.9Sex ratio (males per 100 females)103.2±6.7(X)(X)97.9±5.4(X)(X)95.5±7.3(X)(X)Under 5 years1,121±1984.±0.72,672±5425.±1.01,458±3365.±1.15 to 9 years1,719±3156.±1.21,719±3243.±0.71,561±3846.±1.310 to 14 years1,696±2726.±1.03,100±5046.±1.11,429±2905.±1.115 to 19 years1,646±2566.±0.92,810±4845.±0.91,429±2495.±0.920 to 24 years1,443±2725.±1.03,144±5766.±1.11,656±4026.±1.525 to 34 years3,100±48311.±1.78,028±99916.±1.73,377±67113.±2.235 to 44 years3,298±45612.±1.75,766±69112.±1.43,451±62813.±2.045 to 54 years3,533±36913.±1.36,850±71114.±1.53,310±51612.±1.755 to 59 years1,778±3046.±1.12,838±4396.±0.92,117±4768.±1.760 to 64 years1,876±3327.±1.33,020±4436.±0.91,605±2796.±1.265 to 74 years2,893±36211.±1.34,916±70610.±1.42,387±3239.±1.575 to 84 years1,246±1894.±0.81,569±3683.±0.81,298±2015.±0.985 years and over789±2363.±0.91,083±2932.±0.6673±1632.±0.7Median age (years)43.6±1.2(X)(X)38.8±1.8(X)(X)41±2.0(X)(X)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total population26,138±96226,138(X)47,515±2,52147,515(X)25,751±1,88525,751(X)One race24,570±1,02494.±1.543,629±2,43791.±2.824,017±1,91793.±2.1Two or more races1,568±4056.±1.53,886±1,3538.±2.81,734±5436.±2.1One race24,570±1,02494.±1.543,629±2,43791.±2.824,017±1,91793.±2.1White14,626±80856.±3.48,692±1,27918.±2.718,165±1,50870.±4.6Black or African American1,548±4475.±1.620,960±2,03744.±3.8864±4283.±1.6American Indian and Alaska Native226±1360.±0.5228±2060.±0.4104±1220.±0.5Asian6,433±81424.±2.77,767±1,44316.±2.92,810±81410.±2.9Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander0±250.±0.20±280.±0.10±250.±0.2Some other race1,737±5266.±2.05,982±1,35312.±2.62,074±9258.±3.3Two or more races1,568±4056.±1.53,886±1,3538.±2.81,734±5436.±2.1HISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total population26,138±96226,138(X)47,515±2,52147,515(X)25,751±1,88525,751(X)Hispanic or Latino (of any race)4,233±83816.±3.09,776±1,40220.±2.74,024±92415.±3.3Not Hispanic or Latino21,905±1,00283.±3.037,739±2,38479.±2.721,727±1,73184.±3.3HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized population26,138±96226,138(X)47,515±2,52147,515(X)25,635±1,88225,635(X)With health insurance coverage25,455±96397.±0.844,711±2,56394.±1.324,530±1,67395.±1.8With private health insurance21,631±94082.±2.332,830±2,26269.±3.621,082±1,54082.±2.8With public coverage8,127±69431.±2.517,693±1,98237.±3.17,305±70228.±2.7No health insurance coverage683±2032.±0.82,804±5965.±1.31,105±5014.±1.8DISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized Population26,138±96226,138(X)47,515±2,52147,515(X)25,635±1,88225,635(X)With a disability2,435±3329.±1.24,172±5438.±1.02,265±3198.±1.3ZCTA5 11001ZCTA5 11003ZCTA5 11010Page 1 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error6,145±8516,145(X)19,623±79519,623(X)9,699±1,0819,699(X)3,003±51248.±3.48,991±55545.±2.25,090±71052.±3.73,142±42751.±3.410,632±63854.±2.24,609±58447.±3.795.6±12.8(X)(X)84.6±7.7(X)(X)110.4±16.2(X)(X)182±863.±1.5937±2264.±1.2753±3467.±3.2243±854.±1.51,041±2015.±1.01,127±44011.±3.7572±1609.±2.61,152±1785.±0.9911±2559.±2.5375±856.±1.61,141±2205.±1.2548±1665.±1.7703±28811.±3.8777±1794.±0.9411±1564.±1.7505±2758.±4.02,050±40110.±2.0744±2897.±2.6567±2079.±2.62,530±40612.±2.11,127±34211.±2.81,290±28121.±3.22,639±41813.±2.01,005±21710.±2.4356±1195.±2.21,494±2957.±1.5601±1866.±2.0409±1966.±3.01,314±2836.±1.4468±1184.±1.3466±1117.±2.11,957±28610.±1.41,146±21011.±2.4352±1015.±1.91,593±3958.±1.9489±1565.±1.7125±812.±1.3998±2195.±1.1369±2473.±2.544.6±1.4(X)(X)46±2.9(X)(X)38.6±4.4(X)(X)6,145±8516,145(X)19,623±79519,623(X)9,699±1,0819,699(X)5,932±83596.±2.519,013±78996.±1.29,392±1,07896.±1.3213±1553.±2.5610±2303.±1.2307±1253.±1.35,932±83596.±2.519,013±78996.±1.29,392±1,07896.±1.32,418±54939.±9.012,445±90663.±3.87,679±1,01079.±5.71,037±77716.±10.9314±1211.±0.68±80.±0.10±190.±0.6162±1850.±0.90±190.±0.42,437±40339.±8.35,183±65026.±2.91,343±48813.±4.60±190.±0.60±210.±0.20±190.±0.440±410.±0.7909±4284.±2.2362±2673.±2.7213±1553.±2.5610±2303.±1.2307±1253.±1.36,145±8516,145(X)19,623±79519,623(X)9,699±1,0819,699(X)349±1755.±2.71,651±4268.±2.2150±811.±0.95,796±81894.±2.717,972±90591.±2.29,549±1,09298.±0.96,145±8516,145(X)19,328±80219,328(X)9,699±1,0819,699(X)5,817±78194.±3.418,841±78497.±0.99,594±1,08998.±0.85,051±68182.±4.115,374±89179.±2.77,860±95181.±4.41,507±31824.±4.96,281±63032.±3.03,210±83733.±7.3328±2245.±3.4487±1732.±0.9105±701.±0.86,145±8516,145(X)19,328±80219,328(X)9,699±1,0819,699(X)461±1697.±2.51,836±3559.±1.7896±3039.±3.0ZCTA5 11020ZCTA5 11021ZCTA5 11023Page 2 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error9,105±9429,105(X)17,168±1,02917,168(X)42,140±1,83942,140(X)4,962±53054.±2.98,406±67049.±1.720,834±1,14249.±1.54,143±54245.±2.98,762±50751.±1.721,306±1,07150.±1.5119.8±14.0(X)(X)95.9±6.7(X)(X)97.8±5.7(X)(X)855±3319.±3.1718±1804.±1.01,947±3644.±0.8895±3059.±2.81,285±3027.±1.62,167±3585.±0.8742±2028.±2.31,441±2358.±1.22,307±3205.±0.71,052±31911.±3.41,300±2117.±1.32,810±4746.±1.1584±1556.±1.8605±1593.±0.92,828±5796.±1.31,305±37814.±3.41,253±4167.±2.44,419±57710.±1.3657±1927.±2.21,808±38110.±2.05,325±62712.±1.2705±2247.±2.42,667±30815.±1.75,291±52412.±1.2347±1223.±1.31,413±2588.±1.52,980±4337.±1.0536±1915.±2.11,376±4368.±2.53,309±3517.±0.8797±2228.±2.71,913±40811.±2.34,801±48611.±1.1437±1234.±1.4813±1834.±1.12,800±3846.±0.9193±1042.±1.1576±2173.±1.31,156±2512.±0.629.9±4.1(X)(X)46.2±4.0(X)(X)43.5±1.4(X)(X)9,105±9429,105(X)17,168±1,02917,168(X)42,140±1,83942,140(X)8,959±96798.±1.716,395±1,06295.±1.439,867±1,78194.±1.2146±1551.±1.7773±2414.±1.42,273±5095.±1.28,959±96798.±1.716,395±1,06295.±1.439,867±1,78194.±1.27,652±96384.±8.312,126±1,04370.±3.418,918±1,35344.±3.0113±1291.±1.4240±1451.±0.8445±1851.±0.40±190.±0.40±210.±0.2435±3351.±0.8303±1493.±1.63,582±50620.±2.818,078±1,51042.±2.75±100.±0.13±40.±0.10±280.±0.1886±7319.±7.8444±2342.±1.41,991±8804.±2.1146±1551.±1.7773±2414.±1.42,273±5095.±1.29,105±9429,105(X)17,168±1,02917,168(X)42,140±1,83942,140(X)1,415±82515.±8.41,130±3616.±2.15,059±1,11912.±2.67,690±82984.±8.416,038±1,01793.±2.137,081±1,92288.±2.68,803±9448,803(X)16,968±1,02716,968(X)42,114±1,84142,114(X)8,632±92598.±1.016,728±1,02098.±0.540,970±1,84897.±0.86,498±62973.±6.415,320±1,04890.±1.634,579±1,81882.±2.13,478±79439.±6.33,918±52823.±3.012,905±99230.±2.3171±911.±1.0240±911.±0.51,144±3552.±0.88,803±9448,803(X)16,968±1,02716,968(X)42,114±1,84142,114(X)443±1385.±1.61,134±2936.±1.74,296±60010.±1.2ZCTA5 11024ZCTA5 11030ZCTA5 11040Page 3 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error317±8317(X)31,920±1,32031,920(X)9,567±1,3789,567(X)102±5832.±18.416,015±85650.±1.44,837±82850.±3.2215±5867.±18.415,905±75049.±1.44,730±67549.±3.247.4±40.2(X)(X)100.7±5.8(X)(X)102.3±13.3(X)(X)0±130.±11.81,928±4536.±1.3892±2719.±2.30±130.±11.82,417±4427.±1.3757±3037.±2.70±130.±11.82,417±4117.±1.2616±2086.±2.00±130.±11.81,533±2984.±0.9740±2997.±2.90±130.±11.81,576±4204.±1.3495±1835.±1.60±130.±11.82,492±4387.±1.31,842±50119.±3.60±130.±11.84,116±51312.±1.5846±2288.±2.40±130.±11.84,816±58215.±1.6830±2558.±2.47±152.±4.72,160±3106.±0.9768±2778.±2.917±255.±7.81,932±3276.±1.0669±2217.±2.540±2412.±7.43,244±45510.±1.5443±1544.±1.683±4026.±12.62,096±3956.±1.3444±1904.±1.8170±5753.±18.41,193±2603.±0.8225±1272.±1.387.2±7.1(X)(X)43.4±2.1(X)(X)32.3±2.6(X)(X)317±8317(X)31,920±1,32031,920(X)9,567±1,3789,567(X)312±1598.±3.529,992±1,36294.±1.89,117±1,41095.±2.95±111.±3.51,928±5706.±1.8450±2704.±2.9312±1598.±3.529,992±1,36294.±1.89,117±1,41095.±2.9211±6166.±19.423,590±1,22973.±3.13,993±85441.±8.082±4825.±15.0450±2101.±0.71,629±60317.±5.90±130.±11.869±780.±0.212±190.±0.212±183.±5.73,485±64310.±1.9787±6448.±6.60±130.±11.80±280.±0.10±190.±0.47±132.±4.12,398±8047.±2.42,696±1,02428.±8.95±111.±3.51,928±5706.±1.8450±2704.±2.9317±8317(X)31,920±1,32031,920(X)9,567±1,3789,567(X)27±288.±8.94,616±87014.±2.64,163±1,07843.±8.9290±3091.±8.927,304±1,33885.±2.65,404±1,11356.±8.90±130(X)31,688±1,32131,688(X)9,567±1,3789,567(X)0±13 **30,450±1,37196.±1.38,752±1,34091.±3.80±13 **26,247±1,36482.±2.65,573±1,04858.±6.20±13 **8,876±73628.±2.34,664±1,04648.±7.40±13 **1,238±4273.±1.3815±3688.±3.80±130(X)31,688±1,32131,688(X)9,567±1,3789,567(X)0±13 **2,233±3587.±1.1852±2458.±2.2ZCTA5 11050ZCTA5 11096ZCTA5 11042Page 4 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error21,434±36121,434(X)7,111±8127,111(X)1,682±3741,682(X)11,088±45351.±1.93,448±39248.±2.7751±16144.±3.210,346±43648.±1.93,663±50151.±2.7931±22855.±3.2107.2±8.1(X)(X)94.1±10.3(X)(X)80.7±10.7(X)(X)1,036±2694.±1.2255±903.±1.340±232.±1.31,402±3656.±1.7372±885.±1.298±655.±2.7871±2554.±1.2391±1025.±1.4112±1146.±5.7769±2593.±1.2392±1265.±1.931±141.±0.9739±2303.±1.1593±2648.±3.251±233.±1.53,897±76418.±3.6852±36012.±4.3115±446.±2.63,129±40114.±1.9641±1409.±2.0204±10312.±4.12,589±46912.±2.2972±20913.±2.7225±9013.±4.11,671±4427.±2.1553±1497.±2.0139±438.±2.81,800±4708.±2.2593±1908.±2.5172±6410.±3.71,947±2939.±1.3693±1759.±2.1310±6618.±4.11,142±2455.±1.1602±1518.±2.3119±487.±3.2442±1452.±0.7202±1042.±1.566±223.±1.541.3±1.6(X)(X)46.5±4.6(X)(X)53.9±6.9(X)(X)21,434±36121,434(X)7,111±8127,111(X)1,682±3741,682(X)20,022±56693.±2.06,767±80795.±2.51,667±37299.±0.71,412±4386.±2.0344±1824.±2.515±110.±0.720,022±56693.±2.06,767±80795.±2.51,667±37299.±0.714,243±96566.±4.63,661±52951.±7.01,590±36594.±3.6299±2301.±1.163±730.±1.08±80.±0.513±220.±0.10±190.±0.60±130.±2.33,647±86317.±4.02,953±69141.±7.023±191.±1.10±250.±0.20±190.±0.60±130.±2.31,820±7848.±3.690±761.±1.046±492.±2.91,412±4386.±2.0344±1824.±2.515±110.±0.721,434±36121,434(X)7,111±8127,111(X)1,682±3741,682(X)2,837±76013.±3.5352±1485.±2.045±322.±1.918,597±69886.±3.56,759±79295.±2.01,637±36697.±1.921,434±36121,434(X)7,111±8127,111(X)1,682±3741,682(X)20,755±52596.±1.56,934±80297.±1.81,661±37298.±1.117,885±92983.±3.96,218±76487.±2.91,269±26075.±7.65,907±81727.±3.81,720±26124.±3.3649±19138.±7.4679±3293.±1.5177±1302.±1.821±181.±1.121,434±36121,434(X)7,111±8127,111(X)1,682±3741,682(X)1,490±3107.±1.4910±25712.±3.3159±429.±3.1ZCTA5 11501ZCTA5 11507ZCTA5 11509Page 5 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error35,070±2,10035,070(X)5,040±6815,040(X)8,450±6048,450(X)17,262±1,26949.±1.62,427±40448.±6.64,330±51151.±5.817,808±1,11850.±1.62,613±53251.±6.64,120±63248.±5.896.9±6.4(X)(X)92.9±25.5(X)(X)105.1±24.3(X)(X)1,620±3464.±0.9286±1875.±4.0430±1295.±1.61,674±2884.±0.8400±1347.±2.4700±2188.±2.62,210±4266.±1.0522±19710.±3.5806±2499.±3.12,364±5186.±1.3270±1175.±2.4546±1846.±2.12,290±4666.±1.2186±1523.±2.9888±26110.±3.14,227±53112.±1.4629±20412.±3.3663±2447.±2.84,690±50513.±1.3911±24518.±4.21,011±25412.±3.04,790±67213.±1.5653±22213.±4.2620±2427.±3.02,804±3698.±1.1253±1335.±2.3888±60110.±7.12,668±3617.±1.2285±1685.±3.0449±2985.±3.33,487±5509.±1.5407±1648.±3.4916±27310.±3.31,644±2924.±0.8198±853.±1.9199±1122.±1.3602±1521.±0.440±320.±0.7334±2304.±2.542.1±1.4(X)(X)38.3±3.4(X)(X)36.5±3.2(X)(X)35,070±2,10035,070(X)5,040±6815,040(X)8,450±6048,450(X)30,826±2,04187.±2.84,794±75195.±4.87,752±97591.±9.94,244±1,02312.±2.8246±2284.±4.8698±8328.±9.930,826±2,04187.±2.84,794±75195.±4.87,752±97591.±9.913,447±1,27838.±3.43,159±64662.±7.57,356±98887.±10.114,562±1,44641.±3.2167±1183.±2.4197±2012.±2.411±190.±0.10±190.±0.80±190.±0.51,093±3583.±1.0618±21912.±4.276±720.±0.90±280.±0.10±190.±0.80±190.±0.51,713±7614.±2.1850±37916.±7.3123±1271.±1.54,244±1,02312.±2.8246±2284.±4.8698±8328.±9.935,070±2,10035,070(X)5,040±6815,040(X)8,450±6048,450(X)7,140±1,21620.±3.0547±42810.±8.71,200±77614.±9.127,930±1,77879.±3.04,493±79089.±8.77,250±91985.±9.135,056±2,10135,056(X)5,040±6815,040(X)8,450±6048,450(X)33,898±2,13796.±1.34,314±73485.±9.58,119±65496.±3.628,486±2,18081.±2.63,868±70476.±9.36,493±63676.±6.79,367±90026.±2.6952±20618.±4.63,066±79536.±8.91,158±4573.±1.3726±48814.±9.5331±3023.±3.635,056±2,10135,056(X)5,040±6815,040(X)8,450±6048,450(X)2,890±4318.±1.3328±1176.±2.4879±39010.±4.3ZCTA5 11510ZCTA5 11514ZCTA5 11516Page 6 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error10,294±56610,294(X)44,876±41144,876(X)28,207±69628,207(X)4,375±45342.±3.722,192±83749.±1.713,301±66847.±2.05,919±49457.±3.722,684±74250.±1.714,906±66152.±2.073.9±11.2(X)(X)97.8±6.7(X)(X)89.2±7.2(X)(X)556±2555.±2.42,396±3785.±0.81,348±3024.±1.1498±2284.±2.32,322±4005.±0.92,180±4667.±1.7687±2506.±2.33,146±4117.±0.91,923±3096.±1.1571±2175.±2.02,748±4626.±1.02,480±5168.±1.9603±3175.±3.02,745±4176.±0.91,986±3587.±1.31,202±29211.±2.86,367±71214.±1.61,898±3156.±1.11,732±33516.±3.16,397±62914.±1.43,465±51012.±1.8999±2329.±2.26,422±70514.±1.53,943±48114.±1.7841±2258.±2.13,116±4326.±1.02,040±4287.±1.4825±2478.±2.42,309±3535.±0.82,110±3467.±1.21,061±24210.±2.44,226±5609.±1.22,490±3748.±1.3480±1794.±1.81,901±3314.±0.71,494±2795.±1.0239±1252.±1.2781±2431.±0.5850±2273.±0.841.1±3.3(X)(X)39.3±1.8(X)(X)41.8±1.3(X)(X)10,294±56610,294(X)44,876±41144,876(X)28,207±69628,207(X)9,858±51995.±3.138,597±1,41786.±3.326,904±75595.±1.6436±3294.±3.16,279±1,49914.±3.31,303±4594.±1.69,858±51995.±3.138,597±1,41786.±3.326,904±75595.±1.68,514±75782.±5.914,444±1,38232.±3.124,302±83786.±2.5584±4515.±4.414,085±1,57031.±3.5293±1621.±0.618±280.±0.329±710.±0.20±250.±0.1468±3784.±3.7926±3982.±0.91,704±4956.±1.70±210.±0.45±60.±0.10±250.±0.1274±2242.±2.29,108±1,61620.±3.6605±2572.±0.9436±3294.±3.16,279±1,49914.±3.31,303±4594.±1.610,294±56610,294(X)44,876±41144,876(X)28,207±69628,207(X)1,061±47010.±4.419,430±1,65743.±3.61,897±5506.±1.99,233±61589.±4.425,446±1,61956.±3.626,310±77493.±1.910,294±56610,294(X)44,557±41244,557(X)28,187±69228,187(X)10,019±54497.±1.341,505±77193.±1.527,838±66998.±0.58,637±74483.±4.531,336±1,40170.±3.024,997±86688.±2.42,560±49924.±5.114,805±1,16933.±2.66,377±77622.±2.6275±1352.±1.33,052±6456.±1.5349±1541.±0.510,294±56610,294(X)44,557±41244,557(X)28,187±69228,187(X)1,029±32810.±3.13,556±4668.±1.02,021±3287.±1.1ZCTA5 11530ZCTA5 11518ZCTA5 11520Page 7 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error29,095±34929,095(X)12,068±95412,068(X)585±255585(X)13,851±52647.±1.85,844±50448.±2.3277±14747.±13.515,244±56452.±1.86,224±59951.±2.3308±15452.±13.590.9±6.5(X)(X)93.9±8.8(X)(X)89.9±49.6(X)(X)1,403±2864.±1.0372±1083.±0.90±130.±6.61,588±4145.±1.4479±1264.±1.116±252.±4.11,383±3994.±1.41,229±29510.±2.274±5612.±7.01,758±3486.±1.2947±1907.±1.517±232.±3.52,169±4977.±1.7588±1754.±1.356±579.±7.73,548±64512.±2.2885±1747.±1.340±686.±10.43,363±59511.±2.01,014±1918.±1.676±7213.±9.73,946±60113.±2.02,184±31518.±2.2103±9317.±13.62,080±3237.±1.11,164±2439.±1.845±427.±6.61,953±3266.±1.1655±1685.±1.312±202.±3.53,213±52311.±1.81,602±33713.±2.572±4412.±10.31,788±3196.±1.1767±1786.±1.635±316.±5.5903±2023.±0.7182±641.±0.539±336.±5.543.2±3.0(X)(X)47.3±1.7(X)(X)47.4±6.8(X)(X)29,095±34929,095(X)12,068±95412,068(X)585±255585(X)26,090±1,00189.±3.211,546±93395.±1.6585±255100.±6.63,005±92910.±3.2522±1984.±1.60±130.±6.626,090±1,00189.±3.211,546±93395.±1.6585±255100.±6.619,722±1,29567.±4.39,980±90582.±3.6443±21675.±24.11,638±7475.±2.693±730.±0.60±130.±6.6257±2030.±0.730±490.±0.40±130.±6.61,579±4225.±1.5931±2717.±2.3142±16224.±24.166±830.±0.30±210.±0.30±130.±6.62,828±1,2699.±4.4512±3314.±2.70±130.±6.63,005±92910.±3.2522±1984.±1.60±130.±6.629,095±34929,095(X)12,068±95412,068(X)585±255585(X)8,173±1,15828.±4.01,565±62413.±4.80±130.±6.620,922±1,18671.±4.010,503±86787.±4.8585±255100.±6.628,651±35428,651(X)12,068±95412,068(X)585±255585(X)26,351±67492.±2.211,915±96398.±0.7559±23995.±3.620,027±1,37669.±4.710,243±76484.±3.3440±22775.±10.910,227±92535.±3.23,508±64529.±4.1188±7632.±15.52,300±6428.±2.2153±771.±0.726±264.±3.628,651±35428,651(X)12,068±95412,068(X)585±255585(X)3,541±49412.±1.71,076±2408.±1.862±4210.±7.0ZCTA5 11542ZCTA5 11545ZCTA5 11547Page 8 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error2,230±3052,230(X)2,508±1462,508(X)60,668±43460,668(X)1,151±20251.±5.81,097±15743.±5.529,451±96848.±1.61,079±19848.±5.81,411±15556.±5.531,217±98751.±1.6106.7±24.5(X)(X)77.7±17.4(X)(X)94.3±5.9(X)(X)20±210.±0.92±20.±0.14,015±6776.±1.131±281.±1.20±130.±1.64,030±5586.±0.999±464.±2.00±130.±1.63,891±5386.±0.9480±10721.±4.91,184±16447.±5.93,433±4695.±0.8607±9827.±5.31,277±14750.±5.15,049±4988.±0.8178±1338.±5.845±391.±1.68,990±76414.±1.3122±625.±2.70±130.±1.68,473±66414.±1.1169±967.±4.10±130.±1.68,113±72713.±1.266±493.±2.20±130.±1.64,050±5316.±0.967±443.±1.90±130.±1.63,085±4735.±0.8250±12411.±4.70±130.±1.64,278±5157.±0.8124±1035.±4.40±130.±1.62,484±3904.±0.717±220.±0.90±130.±1.6777±2031.±0.322.8±1.3(X)(X)20.1±0.3(X)(X)36.1±1.1(X)(X)2,230±3052,230(X)2,508±1462,508(X)60,668±43460,668(X)2,159±30696.±1.92,295±14791.±3.154,701±1,17590.±1.971±423.±1.9213±808.±3.15,967±1,1419.±1.92,159±30696.±1.92,295±14791.±3.154,701±1,17590.±1.91,579±28070.±8.21,797±19071.±6.58,069±1,18513.±1.9126±565.±2.7256±8910.±3.527,970±1,81046.±3.00±130.±1.80±130.±1.6175±1220.±0.2433±20119.±8.2198±747.±2.91,201±4972.±0.80±130.±1.80±130.±1.67±120.±0.121±210.±0.944±331.±1.317,279±2,10128.±3.571±423.±1.9213±808.±3.15,967±1,1419.±1.92,230±3052,230(X)2,508±1462,508(X)60,668±43460,668(X)107±664.±3.0252±7010.±2.826,908±1,87644.±3.12,123±31695.±3.02,256±15390.±2.833,760±1,87555.±3.12,230±3052,230(X)2,508±1462,508(X)59,773±43759,773(X)2,147±31896.±3.62,396±15295.±2.452,723±1,10888.±1.71,918±30486.±4.82,225±16388.±3.532,674±1,92954.±3.2678±25030.±9.3237±699.±2.826,990±1,45145.±2.583±773.±3.6112±614.±2.47,050±1,04411.±1.72,230±3052,230(X)2,508±1462,508(X)59,773±43759,773(X)221±839.±3.9325±8213.±3.34,419±6357.±1.1ZCTA5 11548ZCTA5 11549ZCTA5 11550Page 9 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error26,043±1,80126,043(X)27,886±2,01227,886(X)36,856±2,25736,856(X)13,076±96350.±1.713,500±1,21848.±2.417,028±1,09746.±1.912,967±1,05149.±1.714,386±1,20351.±2.419,828±1,53653.±1.9100.8±7.0(X)(X)93.8±9.1(X)(X)85.9±6.5(X)(X)1,522±3645.±1.22,137±5427.±1.82,192±4465.±1.11,907±4097.±1.31,599±3435.±1.21,994±3585.±1.01,842±4057.±1.41,606±3615.±1.22,237±4026.±1.02,045±3377.±1.22,434±3888.±1.41,980±4415.±1.11,765±3396.±1.31,888±3926.±1.42,271±5616.±1.43,329±68412.±2.34,023±78214.±2.54,249±57311.±1.33,046±39111.±1.33,595±70112.±2.14,383±47311.±1.23,377±50713.±1.93,647±53713.±1.84,753±80112.±1.81,704±2936.±1.01,961±4367.±1.52,077±3775.±1.01,762±3116.±1.21,014±3163.±1.02,625±4667.±1.32,048±2417.±0.92,403±3728.±1.44,229±64711.±1.81,185±2754.±1.11,082±2773.±1.02,118±3555.±0.9511±2272.±0.9497±1671.±0.61,748±4184.±1.237.3±2.4(X)(X)35.6±1.7(X)(X)42.3±1.9(X)(X)26,043±1,80126,043(X)27,886±2,01227,886(X)36,856±2,25736,856(X)24,195±1,69192.±2.223,778±1,69885.±4.535,423±2,31396.±1.71,848±6047.±2.24,108±1,40314.±4.51,433±6083.±1.724,195±1,69192.±2.223,778±1,69885.±4.535,423±2,31396.±1.713,911±1,28453.±3.87,293±1,36026.±4.824,364±2,04866.±3.35,888±80722.±2.911,503±1,50741.±4.41,729±6674.±1.825±400.±0.2347±3061.±1.16±90.±0.11,260±3754.±1.5342±1291.±0.56,617±1,09518.±2.771±950.±0.40±250.±0.19±170.±0.13,040±1,00711.±3.64,293±91315.±3.42,698±6827.±1.91,848±6047.±2.24,108±1,40314.±4.51,433±6083.±1.726,043±1,80126,043(X)27,886±2,01227,886(X)36,856±2,25736,856(X)5,880±1,29722.±4.212,834±1,62946.±4.34,906±75113.±2.020,163±1,44377.±4.215,052±1,48054.±4.331,950±2,18186.±2.026,011±1,79626,011(X)27,459±2,01227,459(X)35,749±2,25835,749(X)25,183±1,69196.±1.325,454±1,99592.±1.934,196±2,03995.±2.321,407±1,62982.±2.819,096±1,98369.±4.528,533±1,83779.±3.17,257±1,14327.±3.79,034±1,13532.±3.911,133±1,05531.±2.6828±3603.±1.32,005±5417.±1.91,553±8384.±2.326,011±1,79626,011(X)27,459±2,01227,459(X)35,749±2,25835,749(X)2,118±3888.±1.41,859±2696.±1.03,902±53810.±1.5ZCTA5 11552ZCTA5 11553ZCTA5 11554Page 10 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error0±130(X)8,290±1,1428,290(X)8,660±4648,660(X)0±13 **3,993±62948.±3.54,627±43653.±4.40±13 **4,297±65451.±3.54,033±44846.±4.4 **(X)(X)92.9±13.1(X)(X)114.7±20.2(X)(X)0±13 **448±2135.±2.1496±1825.±2.00±13 **585±1807.±2.0393±1324.±1.50±13 **517±1906.±2.0320±1533.±1.80±13 **821±3099.±3.1411±1594.±1.80±13 **320±1153.±1.5298±1593.±1.80±13 **1,041±49412.±5.11,333±25915.±2.80±13 **935±27711.±2.71,281±25414.±2.80±13 **1,169±23714.±3.21,233±26814.±3.20±13 **425±1915.±2.3673±1897.±2.10±13 **526±1276.±1.6499±1545.±1.70±13 **866±21910.±2.61,012±20511.±2.40±13 **482±1535.±2.0444±1985.±2.30±13 **155±931.±1.1267±1113.±1.3 **(X)(X)40.1±4.4(X)(X)43.9±5.0(X)(X)0±130(X)8,290±1,1428,290(X)8,660±4648,660(X)0±13 **7,891±1,12395.±2.58,178±56294.±3.30±13 **399±2084.±2.5482±2785.±3.30±13 **7,891±1,12395.±2.58,178±56294.±3.30±13 **6,127±1,04273.±6.66,950±67880.±6.00±13 **579±3427.±4.2114±731.±0.80±13 **0±190.±0.50±190.±0.50±13 **854±45110.±5.0299±2173.±2.50±13 **0±190.±0.50±190.±0.50±13 **331±1764.±2.1815±4149.±4.80±13 **399±2084.±2.5482±2785.±3.30±130(X)8,290±1,1428,290(X)8,660±4648,660(X)0±13 **719±2318.±2.91,855±47621.±5.80±13 **7,571±1,14191.±2.96,805±70378.±5.80±130(X)8,290±1,1428,290(X)8,532±4648,532(X)0±13 **8,096±1,14397.±1.88,084±52894.±2.90±13 **7,013±1,14484.±4.35,820±68068.±6.20±13 **2,564±59830.±6.93,336±51139.±6.10±13 **194±1452.±1.8448±2485.±2.90±130(X)8,290±1,1428,290(X)8,532±4648,532(X)0±13 **694±2338.±2.6886±21010.±2.5ZCTA5 11556ZCTA5 11557ZCTA5 11558Page 11 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error8,732±6598,732(X)7,043±7967,043(X)38,755±53838,755(X)4,187±37848.±4.03,607±57351.±3.419,844±73751.±1.74,545±56152.±4.03,436±33448.±3.418,911±71748.±1.792.1±14.7(X)(X)105±14.5(X)(X)104.9±7.4(X)(X)597±1896.±2.0363±1515.±2.01,651±3334.±0.9482±1675.±2.0352±915.±1.51,422±2833.±0.7991±20911.±2.0603±2068.±2.41,406±2913.±0.8912±26210.±2.9544±2237.±2.61,618±2664.±0.7821±4139.±4.8383±1175.±1.61,950±3795.±1.0701±2318.±2.6416±1185.±1.76,489±73616.±1.9629±2177.±2.3617±1388.±2.14,461±46111.±1.21,026±22911.±2.51,188±37716.±4.04,832±50812.±1.3314±1873.±2.2655±2189.±2.83,245±4578.±1.2638±2197.±2.4598±1758.±2.73,664±5459.±1.4843±2829.±3.2700±1709.±2.84,563±48611.±1.2521±2066.±2.4453±1686.±2.52,273±4235.±1.1257±1182.±1.3171±732.±1.01,181±2383.±0.632.9±7.0(X)(X)46.8±4.0(X)(X)45.6±1.3(X)(X)8,732±6598,732(X)7,043±7967,043(X)38,755±53838,755(X)8,577±69998.±2.16,452±76691.±3.736,720±83494.±1.7155±1811.±2.1591±2708.±3.72,035±6405.±1.78,577±69998.±2.16,452±76691.±3.736,720±83494.±1.77,345±40384.±5.05,979±73284.±4.331,369±1,25980.±3.1212±2052.±2.3155±1782.±2.51,824±6924.±1.80±190.±0.514±230.±0.342±440.±0.1197±1902.±2.1232±1253.±1.71,744±5314.±1.40±190.±0.50±190.±0.64±70.±0.1823±4989.±5.372±721.±1.01,737±6334.±1.6155±1811.±2.1591±2708.±3.72,035±6405.±1.78,732±6598,732(X)7,043±7967,043(X)38,755±53838,755(X)1,288±56614.±5.71,078±42715.±5.55,426±83014.±2.17,444±41285.±5.75,965±70684.±5.533,329±89886.±2.18,732±6598,732(X)7,043±7967,043(X)37,893±53437,893(X)8,528±65097.±1.66,746±78095.±2.936,197±67795.±1.16,817±51878.±4.55,535±76878.±6.330,233±1,04379.±2.53,250±57737.±5.12,089±40929.±5.711,282±90729.±2.3204±1412.±1.6297±2114.±2.91,696±4044.±1.18,732±6598,732(X)7,043±7967,043(X)37,893±53437,893(X)574±2086.±2.4498±1377.±2.13,439±5049.±1.3ZCTA5 11559ZCTA5 11560ZCTA5 11561Page 12 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error22,055±42322,055(X)9,013±4239,013(X)33,976±1,45533,976(X)10,458±54047.±2.24,455±40149.±3.517,398±98351.±1.611,597±53352.±2.24,558±35750.±3.516,578±81648.±1.690.2±8.1(X)(X)97.7±13.8(X)(X)104.9±6.6(X)(X)1,273±3915.±1.8644±1917.±2.12,196±4876.±1.4816±2173.±1.0357±2174.±2.42,465±4157.±1.21,469±2916.±1.3530±1785.±2.01,755±2295.±0.71,386±3576.±1.6436±2024.±2.31,705±2775.±0.8905±2104.±0.9444±1304.±1.51,789±3005.±0.82,734±59412.±2.7947±24510.±2.83,529±45810.±1.32,628±47011.±2.11,325±44214.±4.54,646±49113.±1.22,964±41913.±1.91,219±28413.±3.24,578±42413.±1.31,548±3237.±1.4718±1938.±2.12,577±3387.±1.01,627±3657.±1.7624±1686.±1.92,717±3658.±1.12,441±42511.±2.01,130±19612.±2.23,733±45411.±1.31,227±3855.±1.7355±1973.±2.21,510±2954.±0.81,037±2704.±1.2284±1203.±1.3776±2262.±0.744.5±2.0(X)(X)43.5±2.7(X)(X)42.3±1.4(X)(X)22,055±42322,055(X)9,013±4239,013(X)33,976±1,45533,976(X)19,830±1,23989.±5.17,676±42185.±3.931,884±1,55693.±1.42,225±1,12910.±5.11,337±37814.±3.92,092±4476.±1.419,830±1,23989.±5.17,676±42185.±3.931,884±1,55693.±1.415,034±1,27168.±5.46,552±47672.±4.729,450±1,61786.±2.01,494±5686.±2.6460±3085.±3.4932±3932.±1.2169±1730.±0.80±190.±0.438±400.±0.11,785±7838.±3.5242±1512.±1.71,100±4233.±1.30±250.±0.20±190.±0.40±280.±0.11,348±5046.±2.3422±2064.±2.3364±1721.±0.52,225±1,12910.±5.11,337±37814.±3.92,092±4476.±1.422,055±42322,055(X)9,013±4239,013(X)33,976±1,45533,976(X)4,628±95421.±4.41,373±27815.±3.13,362±5939.±1.817,427±1,07079.±4.47,640±47884.±3.130,614±1,60390.±1.821,942±42421,942(X)9,013±4239,013(X)33,968±1,45633,968(X)21,217±55396.±1.48,859±43098.±1.033,183±1,42397.±1.017,755±98380.±3.97,917±47187.±2.929,197±1,39786.±2.07,073±85032.±3.92,305±34925.±3.98,372±89824.±2.3725±3143.±1.4154±951.±1.0785±3472.±1.021,942±42421,942(X)9,013±4239,013(X)33,968±1,45633,968(X)2,707±47712.±2.2595±1696.±1.92,737±4488.±1.2ZCTA5 11563ZCTA5 11565ZCTA5 11566Page 13 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error4,272±1414,272(X)1,110±3271,110(X)28,262±59128,262(X)2,057±13748.±2.7556±20550.±9.613,577±51348.±1.52,215±13351.±2.7554±18349.±9.614,685±50352.±1.592.9±9.9(X)(X)100.4±38.9(X)(X)92.5±5.4(X)(X)58±441.±1.00±130.±3.51,520±2545.±0.9205±774.±1.818±301.±2.61,729±3016.±1.1185±564.±1.346±624.±5.21,853±3506.±1.2847±18019.±4.391±848.±6.81,970±3267.±1.1833±14719.±3.394±948.±7.71,114±2363.±0.8300±1107.±2.668±726.±6.12,785±4209.±1.5312±947.±2.210±180.±1.73,891±53913.±1.9439±9910.±2.383±657.±5.03,267±34911.±1.2214±945.±2.2179±11116.±8.92,252±3848.±1.3268±996.±2.3111±5110.±5.32,168±4107.±1.5326±1007.±2.3243±10021.±9.73,328±43011.±1.5156±623.±1.479±467.±4.51,525±3015.±1.1129±583.±1.388±1397.±12.3860±1773.±0.626.2±4.9(X)(X)58.4±6.1(X)(X)42.9±1.2(X)(X)4,272±1414,272(X)1,110±3271,110(X)28,262±59128,262(X)3,953±19392.±3.41,075±32796.±2.826,950±64195.±1.3319±1447.±3.435±293.±2.81,312±3744.±1.33,953±19392.±3.41,075±32796.±2.826,950±64195.±1.32,901±26167.±5.21,075±32796.±2.822,348±1,10379.±3.9288±1076.±2.50±130.±3.51,690±5246.±1.80±130.±0.90±130.±3.5145±2380.±0.8672±14215.±3.40±130.±3.51,542±7375.±2.60±130.±0.90±130.±3.50±250.±0.192±532.±1.20±130.±3.51,225±5024.±1.8319±1447.±3.435±293.±2.81,312±3744.±1.34,272±1414,272(X)1,110±3271,110(X)28,262±59128,262(X)287±1076.±2.530±262.±2.52,939±58110.±2.03,985±17793.±2.51,080±32797.±2.525,323±78689.±2.04,272±1414,272(X)1,110±3271,110(X)28,063±59028,063(X)4,100±16696.±2.01,060±30895.±5.627,525±60698.±0.83,609±19984.±3.4951±30085.±7.524,541±72887.±1.6900±16521.±3.7470±20442.±16.97,134±57525.±2.0172±864.±2.050±664.±5.6538±2281.±0.84,272±1414,272(X)1,110±3271,110(X)28,063±59028,063(X)370±998.±2.3125±6711.±5.12,989±42710.±1.5ZCTA5 11569ZCTA5 11570ZCTA5 11568Page 14 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error29,961±1,22629,961(X)19,102±1,63019,102(X)12,506±88512,506(X)15,668±80852.±1.99,373±81949.±3.36,118±48548.±1.614,293±85847.±1.99,729±1,20750.±3.36,388±48951.±1.6109.6±8.3(X)(X)96.3±12.8(X)(X)95.8±6.1(X)(X)1,340±3274.±1.01,720±5179.±2.4463±1293.±1.11,651±2675.±0.91,414±3967.±1.9767±1606.±1.32,007±3546.±1.11,134±3995.±1.9709±1825.±1.41,681±3645.±1.11,031±2905.±1.4792±2126.±1.71,679±3135.±1.01,757±3639.±1.6659±2485.±1.83,059±50910.±1.73,053±41116.±2.3860±3156.±2.33,372±34911.±1.12,721±61114.±2.61,361±23310.±1.94,551±58015.±1.72,413±43712.±2.31,822±35714.±2.52,295±4257.±1.4882±2834.±1.51,000±2148.±1.71,853±3356.±1.2926±2534.±1.2979±3677.±2.73,742±57312.±1.91,323±2566.±1.41,878±36315.±3.01,674±2785.±0.9499±1712.±0.9854±2266.±1.71,057±3053.±1.0229±1211.±0.6362±1272.±1.045.6±2.0(X)(X)32.8±1.5(X)(X)49.2±2.1(X)(X)29,961±1,22629,961(X)19,102±1,63019,102(X)12,506±88512,506(X)27,685±1,20292.±2.117,773±1,67293.±3.512,338±90198.±0.82,276±6587.±2.11,329±6767.±3.5168±991.±0.827,685±1,20292.±2.117,773±1,67293.±3.512,338±90198.±0.825,238±1,12584.±3.13,403±1,05317.±5.29,000±88572.±5.1603±3382.±1.19,544±1,45150.±6.5145±1231.±1.051±560.±0.2462±4702.±2.50±210.±0.3920±4113.±1.4455±2532.±1.32,538±61720.±4.60±250.±0.10±210.±0.20±210.±0.3873±5292.±1.73,909±1,56420.±8.0655±3805.±3.02,276±6587.±2.11,329±6767.±3.5168±991.±0.829,961±1,22629,961(X)19,102±1,63019,102(X)12,506±88512,506(X)4,617±82115.±2.58,235±1,49143.±6.4799±3216.±2.625,344±1,10084.±2.510,867±1,44156.±6.411,707±92893.±2.629,863±1,22729,863(X)19,102±1,63019,102(X)12,506±88512,506(X)29,098±1,23397.±1.017,809±1,49293.±2.012,396±88999.±0.425,336±1,19084.±2.013,697±1,59471.±4.810,842±93986.±3.28,908±96129.±2.85,519±90128.±5.03,460±49027.±3.8765±2952.±1.01,293±4096.±2.0110±540.±0.429,863±1,22729,863(X)19,102±1,63019,102(X)12,506±88512,506(X)2,763±4839.±1.61,159±2736.±1.5739±1645.±1.3ZCTA5 11572ZCTA5 11575ZCTA5 11576Page 15 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error12,399±1,21212,399(X)5,062±285,062(X)43,396±2,12543,396(X)5,859±60947.±2.22,227±22544.±4.420,889±1,59648.±2.06,540±72152.±2.22,835±22256.±4.422,507±1,09251.±2.089.6±7.9(X)(X)78.6±14.3(X)(X)92.8±7.5(X)(X)437±1343.±1.1316±1326.±2.61,327±3323.±0.8851±2146.±1.3582±27611.±5.51,724±3414.±0.71,274±32110.±2.0272±1055.±2.12,477±3945.±0.9884±2257.±1.7209±1334.±2.62,929±5966.±1.2431±1223.±1.0189±893.±1.83,626±6238.±1.3857±2356.±1.9317±1416.±2.86,037±95213.±2.01,865±38115.±2.3704±17513.±3.54,918±59111.±1.41,811±32414.±2.3864±16617.±3.35,991±78413.±1.6788±1656.±1.5219±1174.±2.33,306±4557.±1.0788±1816.±1.5405±1308.±2.63,745±5988.±1.41,423±28811.±2.1588±15511.±3.14,762±59611.±1.3596±1674.±1.3278±1225.±2.41,458±3253.±0.8394±883.±0.8119±742.±1.51,096±3112.±0.743.9±1.1(X)(X)42.7±6.0(X)(X)42.2±1.5(X)(X)12,399±1,21212,399(X)5,062±285,062(X)43,396±2,12543,396(X)11,821±1,07595.±2.24,799±18094.±3.538,941±1,93889.±2.8578±2964.±2.2263±1795.±3.54,455±1,29910.±2.811,821±1,07595.±2.24,799±18094.±3.538,941±1,93889.±2.88,474±1,00268.±4.04,638±20491.±4.012,169±1,94328.±4.1391±2103.±1.740±450.±0.913,933±1,55132.±3.63±60.±0.10±190.±0.822±250.±0.12,677±38021.±3.252±671.±1.36,850±1,03015.±2.336±510.±0.40±190.±0.80±280.±0.1240±1621.±1.369±991.±2.05,967±1,36613.±3.2578±2964.±2.2263±1795.±3.54,455±1,29910.±2.812,399±1,21212,399(X)5,062±285,062(X)43,396±2,12543,396(X)816±3026.±2.2314±1936.±3.810,481±1,54624.±3.211,583±1,08993.±2.24,748±19593.±3.832,915±1,90575.±3.212,183±1,21312,183(X)5,031±495,031(X)43,342±2,12543,342(X)11,855±1,24797.±1.34,920±7097.±1.341,341±2,05195.±1.210,777±1,20688.±2.54,481±18589.±3.732,701±1,93575.±2.92,687±42222.±3.31,152±24822.±4.913,389±1,47430.±2.9328±1532.±1.3111±642.±1.32,001±5164.±1.212,183±1,21312,183(X)5,031±495,031(X)43,342±2,12543,342(X)836±1906.±1.6497±1889.±3.73,548±6308.±1.4ZCTA5 11577ZCTA5 11579ZCTA5 11580Page 16 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error22,770±1,47122,770(X)47,951±2,25747,951(X)10,520±41810,520(X)10,848±99747.±2.823,263±1,36848.±1.35,199±32449.±2.211,922±95252.±2.824,688±1,21451.±1.35,321±29250.±2.291±10.3(X)(X)94.2±5.0(X)(X)97.7±8.4(X)(X)1,257±3275.±1.43,040±4086.±0.8568±1445.±1.31,535±3286.±1.32,882±7566.±1.4779±1297.±1.21,824±3198.±1.32,782±3045.±0.7710±2086.±1.81,569±4506.±1.82,868±4566.±0.8675±1726.±1.61,457±2636.±1.23,103±5256.±1.0771±1977.±1.92,505±48311.±2.15,774±62312.±1.2727±1686.±1.63,313±49914.±1.96,398±75813.±1.31,472±22814.±2.02,877±62612.±2.56,356±73713.±1.41,242±21011.±1.81,395±2776.±1.23,612±5067.±1.11,020±1589.±1.51,370±2766.±1.22,780±3895.±0.9751±1577.±1.61,918±3108.±1.34,646±4509.±1.1874±1708.±1.71,154±2465.±1.02,641±4055.±0.8538±1505.±1.4596±2462.±1.11,069±2832.±0.6393±1553.±1.538.7±2.3(X)(X)40.4±2.0(X)(X)42.8±1.5(X)(X)22,770±1,47122,770(X)47,951±2,25747,951(X)10,520±41810,520(X)20,814±1,47991.±3.244,061±2,29591.±2.210,263±45297.±1.71,956±7478.±3.23,890±1,0558.±2.2257±1742.±1.720,814±1,47991.±3.244,061±2,29591.±2.210,263±45297.±1.710,360±83045.±3.420,158±2,26842.±3.67,678±49773.±5.13,826±78516.±3.49,174±1,13819.±2.557±610.±0.620±450.±0.28±170.±0.117±140.±0.13,761±82116.±3.54,728±9159.±1.92,036±35819.±3.40±250.±0.276±960.±0.20±210.±0.42,847±95112.±3.89,917±1,79120.±3.8475±5614.±5.31,956±7478.±3.23,890±1,0558.±2.2257±1742.±1.722,770±1,47122,770(X)47,951±2,25747,951(X)10,520±41810,520(X)3,913±91617.±3.616,382±2,28734.±3.8851±6278.±5.818,857±1,25682.±3.631,569±1,73565.±3.89,669±57691.±5.822,737±1,47222,737(X)47,795±2,27247,795(X)10,520±41810,520(X)21,927±1,34796.±1.343,904±2,24591.±1.710,180±42496.±1.217,411±1,32576.±4.034,939±1,68373.±2.79,127±49986.±2.67,313±99832.±3.915,115±1,34531.±2.12,375±34922.±3.5810±3243.±1.33,891±8168.±1.7340±1283.±1.222,737±1,47222,737(X)47,795±2,27247,795(X)10,520±41810,520(X)1,918±3428.±1.54,088±4108.±1.0865±2038.±2.1ZCTA5 11596ZCTA5 11581ZCTA5 11590Page 17 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error14,531±1,52314,531(X)6,763±226,763(X)34,950±2,16834,950(X)7,236±95049.±3.53,347±20049.±3.017,734±1,26250.±1.67,295±86950.±3.53,416±20550.±3.017,216±1,17449.±1.699.2±13.6(X)(X)98±11.8(X)(X)103±6.5(X)(X)1,098±3107.±2.1184±1132.±1.71,714±3284.±0.91,634±52511.±2.9340±1425.±2.12,453±6217.±1.61,427±4319.±2.3341±1385.±2.02,557±5687.±1.51,358±3269.±2.0395±1575.±2.31,883±3855.±1.1743±2675.±1.8388±1175.±1.71,621±3604.±1.01,544±34010.±1.9377±1455.±2.13,827±64710.±1.61,684±35811.±1.9681±16310.±2.44,695±59813.±1.61,435±3289.±2.31,202±34717.±5.15,370±65315.±1.71,027±2807.±2.1809±20012.±3.02,534±4357.±1.2590±1814.±1.3628±2049.±3.02,703±5617.±1.51,171±2038.±1.8721±19610.±2.93,370±3869.±1.0503±1293.±0.9520±1877.±2.81,618±3154.±0.9317±1152.±0.8177±962.±1.4605±1631.±0.532.3±3.2(X)(X)52.5±2.5(X)(X)42.3±1.4(X)(X)14,531±1,52314,531(X)6,763±226,763(X)34,950±2,16834,950(X)13,727±1,25494.±4.16,427±13295.±1.932,591±2,08493.±2.0804±6415.±4.1336±1275.±1.92,359±7146.±2.013,727±1,25494.±4.16,427±13295.±1.932,591±2,08493.±2.012,207±1,30684.±5.96,317±16793.±2.429,281±2,04983.±3.4707±4694.±3.224±390.±0.6844±4072.±1.110±140.±0.10±190.±0.656±720.±0.2297±2112.±1.534±300.±0.41,840±5555.±1.50±210.±0.30±190.±0.634±460.±0.1506±3813.±2.652±860.±1.3536±3141.±0.9804±6415.±4.1336±1275.±1.92,359±7146.±2.014,531±1,52314,531(X)6,763±226,763(X)34,950±2,16834,950(X)847±4895.±3.1334±1594.±2.43,665±66410.±1.913,684±1,38694.±3.16,429±16595.±2.431,285±2,19889.±1.914,353±1,52214,353(X)6,763±226,763(X)34,850±2,16534,850(X)13,833±1,41096.±2.76,653±9098.±1.334,501±2,18199.±0.412,246±1,36285.±3.95,495±32681.±4.930,172±2,07886.±2.03,500±63524.±4.72,131±39531.±5.88,584±97224.±2.5520±4013.±2.7110±881.±1.3349±1461.±0.414,353±1,52214,353(X)6,763±226,763(X)34,850±2,16534,850(X)756±1815.±1.2551±1738.±2.63,449±5529.±1.5ZCTA5 11598ZCTA5 11709ZCTA5 11710Page 18 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error22,444±1,59522,444(X)3,546±5053,546(X)32,716±1,49732,716(X)10,903±97848.±1.91,486±22141.±4.316,005±81948.±1.711,541±82151.±1.92,060±37058.±4.316,711±1,03451.±1.794.5±7.2(X)(X)72.1±12.9(X)(X)95.8±6.5(X)(X)1,199±3695.±1.5108±643.±1.81,526±3144.±1.01,401±2446.±0.9202±795.±2.21,460±2454.±0.71,215±2765.±1.1275±917.±2.31,707±3325.±1.01,397±3406.±1.4128±603.±1.61,877±5095.±1.51,094±2264.±1.071±422.±1.22,584±4067.±1.22,267±35910.±1.5435±19312.±4.65,216±63815.±1.62,349±42510.±1.7284±918.±2.63,209±3059.±1.03,213±62414.±2.5407±10511.±2.44,065±43812.±1.21,516±2936.±1.2213±876.±2.42,972±5719.±1.72,236±54910.±2.2529±22014.±5.72,456±3357.±1.12,174±3329.±1.5369±10410.±2.83,221±3809.±1.11,545±3186.±1.5234±916.±2.81,329±2784.±0.8838±2023.±0.9291±2058.±5.31,094±2323.±0.746.2±2.5(X)(X)50.5±5.9(X)(X)41.2±1.7(X)(X)22,444±1,59522,444(X)3,546±5053,546(X)32,716±1,49732,716(X)21,024±1,40793.±2.43,289±49092.±5.029,942±1,54791.±2.01,420±5846.±2.4257±1847.±5.02,774±6568.±2.021,024±1,40793.±2.43,289±49092.±5.029,942±1,54791.±2.017,423±1,45277.±4.03,116±48687.±5.824,855±1,51176.±2.972±540.±0.296±742.±2.11,224±3663.±1.1213±1790.±0.80±130.±1.131±300.±0.12,754±59112.±2.626±230.±0.62,577±7007.±2.10±250.±0.20±130.±1.111±220.±0.1562±3672.±1.651±691.±1.91,244±4553.±1.41,420±5846.±2.4257±1847.±5.02,774±6568.±2.022,444±1,59522,444(X)3,546±5053,546(X)32,716±1,49732,716(X)2,483±65311.±2.7300±1338.±3.54,692±69614.±2.119,961±1,49688.±2.73,246±48091.±3.528,024±1,53485.±2.122,418±1,59322,418(X)3,546±5053,546(X)32,534±1,50432,534(X)21,848±1,59597.±0.93,501±50698.±0.931,733±1,39097.±1.018,948±1,57884.±2.63,162±50589.±3.828,055±1,41186.±1.96,376±70228.±3.2991±25227.±5.78,175±65825.±1.9570±1912.±0.945±321.±0.9801±3452.±1.022,418±1,59322,418(X)3,546±5053,546(X)32,534±1,50432,534(X)2,528±40511.±1.8279±1287.±3.93,516±40010.±1.2ZCTA5 11714ZCTA5 11732ZCTA5 11735Page 19 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error13,087±1,25513,087(X)42,459±1,95042,459(X)54,201±2,17754,201(X)6,166±71647.±3.520,652±1,13348.±1.326,462±1,20448.±1.16,921±84152.±3.521,807±1,08551.±1.327,739±1,27851.±1.189.1±12.6(X)(X)94.7±4.8(X)(X)95.4±4.2(X)(X)594±2264.±1.62,355±3585.±0.82,967±3885.±0.7977±2717.±2.11,632±3323.±0.72,744±4555.±0.81,131±2888.±1.82,241±3405.±0.82,458±4014.±0.71,094±3558.±2.32,837±4756.±1.03,395±4756.±0.8667±2105.±1.62,976±5207.±1.13,141±4555.±0.9908±2646.±1.94,930±63411.±1.36,388±80311.±1.31,367±33710.±2.25,544±58213.±1.35,801±63110.±1.12,353±51018.±3.25,699±64313.±1.47,803±63714.±1.1855±2146.±1.64,198±7469.±1.63,905±4037.±0.7777±2275.±1.93,075±4727.±1.14,741±5018.±0.91,182±2469.±1.94,565±51710.±1.26,161±60411.±1.1590±2324.±1.81,696±2814.±0.73,213±5315.±1.0592±2914.±2.2711±1491.±0.41,484±4492.±0.843.7±2.5(X)(X)42.2±1.7(X)(X)45.4±1.5(X)(X)13,087±1,25513,087(X)42,459±1,95042,459(X)54,201±2,17754,201(X)12,680±1,24296.±1.739,711±1,88893.±1.451,154±2,14694.±1.3407±2193.±1.72,748±6086.±1.43,047±7225.±1.312,680±1,24296.±1.739,711±1,88893.±1.451,154±2,14694.±1.36,027±89646.±5.731,201±1,69473.±2.546,589±1,88086.±2.072±880.±0.7637±3231.±0.82,883±6745.±1.20±210.±0.35±90.±0.19±150.±0.16,456±1,05449.±6.14,239±80610.±1.8545±2181.±0.40±210.±0.30±280.±0.190±980.±0.2125±931.±0.73,629±8738.±2.01,038±4571.±0.8407±2193.±1.72,748±6086.±1.43,047±7225.±1.313,087±1,25513,087(X)42,459±1,95042,459(X)54,201±2,17754,201(X)200±931.±0.77,566±91517.±1.95,486±96610.±1.712,887±1,24098.±0.734,893±1,69782.±1.948,715±2,02289.±1.713,053±1,25713,053(X)42,459±1,95042,459(X)54,201±2,17754,201(X)12,599±1,25096.±1.841,397±1,95697.±0.853,439±2,17998.±0.510,720±1,24582.±3.936,530±2,02986.±2.047,613±2,06987.±1.53,729±63228.±5.211,397±1,01626.±2.214,680±1,18627.±1.9454±2383.±1.81,062±3362.±0.8762±2681.±0.513,053±1,25713,053(X)42,459±1,95042,459(X)54,201±2,17754,201(X)1,109±2788.±2.14,095±5159.±1.15,445±64810.±1.1ZCTA5 11753ZCTA5 11756ZCTA5 11758Page 20 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error22,440±60922,440(X)708±193708(X)10,068±1,13910,068(X)11,229±48050.±1.5376±11053.±2.94,862±73848.±3.411,211±41050.±1.5332±8746.±2.95,206±57651.±3.4100.2±5.8(X)(X)113.3±13.1(X)(X)93.4±12.7(X)(X)1,328±2955.±1.339±315.±3.7881±3308.±2.71,170±2255.±1.030±184.±2.8494±2624.±2.31,249±2105.±0.982±5511.±5.3382±1423.±1.31,158±2145.±0.945±266.±2.7639±1966.±1.91,348±2256.±1.039±345.±4.8571±1805.±1.72,533±31311.±1.424±153.±2.01,301±48412.±3.92,928±37513.±1.664±289.±3.31,099±26110.±2.42,726±31512.±1.4109±6415.±6.31,500±32614.±3.31,625±2737.±1.235±194.±2.9765±1687.±1.61,982±2888.±1.348±226.±3.3705±1867.±1.82,844±48512.±2.1149±4021.±7.0864±1618.±1.91,078±1674.±0.735±224.±3.2586±1225.±1.4471±972.±0.49±71.±1.0281±1282.±1.343.1±1.7(X)(X)48±7.9(X)(X)41±4.6(X)(X)22,440±60922,440(X)708±193708(X)10,068±1,13910,068(X)21,554±63196.±1.4677±19395.±3.49,373±1,08693.±3.4886±3083.±1.431±234.±3.4695±3576.±3.421,554±63196.±1.4677±19395.±3.49,373±1,08693.±3.420,482±71391.±2.1614±18986.±6.58,135±1,21880.±6.5172±1190.±0.50±130.±5.5210±1872.±1.932±400.±0.20±130.±5.50±210.±0.4490±2212.±1.063±378.±5.4546±1985.±2.00±250.±0.20±130.±5.50±210.±0.4378±2251.±1.00±130.±5.5482±4494.±4.5886±3083.±1.431±234.±3.4695±3576.±3.422,440±60922,440(X)708±193708(X)10,068±1,13910,068(X)970±2834.±1.3146±15120.±18.01,994±84619.±6.821,470±65895.±1.3562±13279.±18.08,074±70180.±6.822,308±60922,308(X)708±193708(X)10,067±1,14010,067(X)21,673±69297.±1.4697±19298.±1.79,823±1,11897.±1.319,639±78888.±2.4607±19185.±5.67,959±76879.±5.95,611±61025.±2.6175±4824.±8.42,850±69628.±5.2635±3012.±1.411±121.±1.7244±1362.±1.322,308±60922,308(X)708±193708(X)10,067±1,14010,067(X)1,674±2777.±1.232±184.±2.7740±2427.±2.2ZCTA5 11762ZCTA5 11765ZCTA5 11771Page 21 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error21,916±1,31021,916(X)25,631±1,49525,631(X)30,865±1,61130,865(X)11,147±75050.±1.712,837±81250.±1.715,301±90749.±1.410,769±75249.±1.712,794±90649.±1.715,564±92750.±1.4103.5±6.9(X)(X)100.3±6.7(X)(X)98.3±5.6(X)(X)911±1964.±0.91,063±2554.±0.91,568±3595.±1.11,281±2515.±1.12,228±4448.±1.41,929±3816.±1.21,190±2485.±1.12,352±2909.±1.02,087±3276.±1.01,730±4257.±1.81,914±2947.±1.11,944±3866.±1.11,587±3477.±1.51,065±1974.±0.71,919±2956.±0.92,997±51613.±2.01,868±3527.±1.33,222±59510.±1.82,221±29910.±1.32,975±33011.±1.24,139±49713.±1.42,857±41513.±1.84,755±60918.±1.94,159±53613.±1.51,892±3848.±1.61,582±1976.±0.92,377±3227.±1.01,447±3256.±1.41,758±2876.±1.12,217±3507.±1.12,190±30210.±1.52,699±29610.±1.22,914±3289.±1.01,097±1865.±0.9915±1713.±0.71,554±2845.±0.9516±1722.±0.8457±1491.±0.6836±1892.±0.740.9±2.1(X)(X)43.2±1.3(X)(X)41.7±1.4(X)(X)21,916±1,31021,916(X)25,631±1,49525,631(X)30,865±1,61130,865(X)21,269±1,27397.±1.324,794±1,50396.±1.128,885±1,62493.±2.0647±2963.±1.3837±2693.±1.11,980±6246.±2.021,269±1,27397.±1.324,794±1,50396.±1.128,885±1,62493.±2.019,570±1,16489.±3.115,678±1,01861.±3.126,662±1,62586.±2.8579±3612.±1.6336±1571.±0.6398±2331.±0.733±360.±0.276±850.±0.338±440.±0.1792±5543.±2.58,143±1,03131.±3.21,128±4243.±1.40±250.±0.20±250.±0.20±280.±0.1295±2011.±0.9561±3232.±1.2659±2842.±0.9647±2963.±1.3837±2693.±1.11,980±6246.±2.021,916±1,31021,916(X)25,631±1,49525,631(X)30,865±1,61130,865(X)1,508±5146.±2.31,318±3945.±1.53,583±81211.±2.520,408±1,31193.±2.324,313±1,44494.±1.527,282±1,56888.±2.521,916±1,31021,916(X)25,582±1,49425,582(X)30,852±1,61130,852(X)21,510±1,32798.±0.925,130±1,46198.±1.330,506±1,62198.±0.419,518±1,26489.±2.022,059±1,46686.±2.327,258±1,64588.±1.75,626±61625.±2.86,096±55923.±2.27,519±75524.±2.4406±1991.±0.9452±3401.±1.3346±1181.±0.421,916±1,31021,916(X)25,582±1,49425,582(X)30,852±1,61130,852(X)1,959±3008.±1.41,560±2396.±0.93,039±4609.±1.3ZCTA5 11783ZCTA5 11791ZCTA5 11793Page 22 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error9,203±9019,203(X)41,967±2,11841,967(X)30,298±1,49730,298(X)4,410±46247.±3.721,998±1,26352.±1.614,973±95349.±1.54,793±65652.±3.719,969±1,23447.±1.615,325±79150.±1.592±13.5(X)(X)110.2±6.9(X)(X)97.7±5.9(X)(X)570±1926.±2.01,580±3423.±0.71,406±2344.±0.7726±2737.±2.52,066±4814.±1.12,176±3467.±1.0271±802.±0.92,380±4755.±1.12,057±3146.±1.1418±1814.±1.72,220±3995.±0.91,844±2746.±0.9308±2133.±2.13,574±7298.±1.61,710±3855.±1.2436±1154.±1.25,630±61913.±1.51,961±3656.±1.21,151±31112.±2.94,767±79311.±1.74,024±42413.±1.2847±2319.±2.54,786±62111.±1.54,020±36913.±1.2732±1828.±1.93,912±5419.±1.22,360±3207.±1.0711±1597.±1.83,285±4957.±1.21,875±3036.±1.01,234±24113.±3.04,110±4339.±1.13,957±75513.±2.21,118±36312.±3.82,289±3845.±0.91,678±3055.±1.0681±1347.±1.61,368±4323.±1.01,230±2224.±0.853.4±5.2(X)(X)41.6±1.8(X)(X)44.9±2.0(X)(X)9,203±9019,203(X)41,967±2,11841,967(X)30,298±1,49730,298(X)8,887±82796.±2.037,705±2,04789.±2.829,503±1,49097.±0.8316±1933.±2.04,262±1,23210.±2.8795±2332.±0.88,887±82796.±2.037,705±2,04789.±2.829,503±1,49097.±0.87,305±82479.±4.420,514±1,71948.±3.723,098±1,38076.±2.5114±331.±0.4538±3801.±0.993±810.±0.30±190.±0.4149±2170.±0.512±230.±0.11,407±38715.±4.113,604±1,34432.±3.15,683±86518.±2.60±190.±0.428±350.±0.10±280.±0.161±430.±0.52,872±1,0126.±2.3617±3902.±1.3316±1933.±2.04,262±1,23210.±2.8795±2332.±0.89,203±9019,203(X)41,967±2,11841,967(X)30,298±1,49730,298(X)229±1542.±1.67,530±1,36217.±2.81,346±4444.±1.58,974±88297.±1.634,437±1,72682.±2.828,952±1,62395.±1.58,228±9008,228(X)41,967±2,11841,967(X)30,151±1,49630,151(X)8,031±82797.±1.639,577±2,14594.±1.229,512±1,48597.±0.76,934±70584.±4.632,589±2,10277.±2.626,303±1,45887.±1.82,611±41531.±4.212,302±1,22629.±2.97,896±75926.±2.2197±1462.±1.62,390±5155.±1.2639±2152.±0.78,228±9008,228(X)41,967±2,11841,967(X)30,151±1,49630,151(X)590±1857.±2.33,907±5299.±1.22,913±4069.±1.3ZCTA5 11797ZCTA5 11801ZCTA5 11803Page 23 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error4,443±5904,443(X)21,329±1,27621,329(X)40,593±2,21640,593(X)2,182±34049.±3.69,783±71545.±1.818,169±1,03344.±1.42,261±33250.±3.611,546±77454.±1.822,424±1,46355.±1.496.5±14.0(X)(X)84.7±6.1(X)(X)81±4.7(X)(X)294±2456.±5.0922±3484.±1.52,110±4275.±0.9357±1058.±2.5746±1943.±0.81,945±2774.±0.6331±1087.±2.51,227±2585.±1.12,176±4015.±0.9336±1467.±3.21,015±1934.±0.92,615±3626.±0.881±541.±1.21,289±2246.±1.02,771±3936.±0.9457±26210.±4.92,524±32011.±1.45,904±68414.±1.4600±15013.±3.42,492±35711.±1.44,994±46012.±1.0563±11612.±2.73,161±34314.±1.45,795±55614.±1.1297±1026.±2.41,901±2778.±1.23,357±4348.±1.0342±1107.±2.61,648±2237.±1.12,769±3376.±0.7420±1249.±3.02,095±2999.±1.43,513±3548.±0.9156±953.±2.11,711±2558.±1.21,863±2484.±0.6209±1004.±2.3598±1332.±0.6781±1801.±0.442.1±4.8(X)(X)46.5±2.2(X)(X)40.5±0.8(X)(X)4,443±5904,443(X)21,329±1,27621,329(X)40,593±2,21640,593(X)4,269±61196.±2.720,557±1,28296.±1.338,701±2,22095.±1.5174±1153.±2.7772±2733.±1.31,892±6164.±1.54,269±61196.±2.720,557±1,28296.±1.338,701±2,22095.±1.53,395±32976.±9.1811±4473.±2.1889±3082.±0.717±270.±0.618,728±1,32387.±2.933,105±2,14281.±2.50±130.±0.90±250.±0.2313±1850.±0.5857±51219.±9.5313±1961.±0.91,299±4163.±1.00±130.±0.90±250.±0.2162±1670.±0.40±130.±0.9705±3093.±1.52,933±6537.±1.6174±1153.±2.7772±2733.±1.31,892±6164.±1.54,443±5904,443(X)21,329±1,27621,329(X)40,593±2,21640,593(X)171±1183.±2.81,425±5436.±2.53,101±6787.±1.74,272±61696.±2.819,904±1,22093.±2.537,492±2,26592.±1.74,443±5904,443(X)21,319±1,27721,319(X)40,585±2,21540,585(X)4,358±58998.±1.520,365±1,24895.±1.138,070±2,17493.±1.03,845±59186.±4.415,676±1,18473.±2.726,281±1,73964.±2.11,022±20723.±5.07,918±68337.±2.615,072±1,17337.±2.285±661.±1.5954±2494.±1.12,515±4016.±1.04,443±5904,443(X)21,319±1,27721,319(X)40,585±2,21540,585(X)468±14710.±3.52,598±40112.±1.64,419±43810.±1.1ZCTA5 11411ZCTA5 11412ZCTA5 11804Page 24 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error44,832±2,31644,832(X)51,153±2,47251,153(X)32,296±2,19332,296(X)20,143±1,19944.±1.726,198±1,57451.±1.615,009±1,32546.±1.924,689±1,56355.±1.724,955±1,36948.±1.617,287±1,16053.±1.981.6±5.5(X)(X)105±6.6(X)(X)86.8±6.6(X)(X)2,123±3984.±0.82,487±4624.±0.81,301±3864.±1.12,195±3434.±0.72,196±4324.±0.81,665±4335.±1.23,073±4406.±0.92,617±4695.±0.91,967±5186.±1.42,721±3836.±0.83,080±5476.±1.01,706±3185.±0.93,222±5797.±1.13,525±4626.±0.91,814±3965.±1.15,921±68913.±1.38,324±80816.±1.35,099±75515.±2.36,410±61214.±1.45,664±61511.±1.13,672±63611.±1.85,852±58613.±1.27,402±67814.±1.24,369±54413.±1.53,344±4647.±1.04,737±5959.±1.12,237±3186.±1.03,055±4636.±1.04,196±5848.±1.22,717±4048.±1.33,560±4217.±0.84,358±6388.±1.23,684±65311.±1.92,293±3405.±0.82,117±4044.±0.81,517±3344.±1.01,063±2712.±0.6450±1520.±0.3548±1641.±0.540.3±0.9(X)(X)40.9±1.6(X)(X)42±2.4(X)(X)44,832±2,31644,832(X)51,153±2,47251,153(X)32,296±2,19332,296(X)43,591±2,33297.±1.242,872±2,23983.±2.330,472±2,07594.±1.51,241±5342.±1.28,281±1,26716.±2.31,824±5235.±1.543,591±2,33297.±1.242,872±2,23983.±2.330,472±2,07594.±1.5793±3221.±0.74,497±8978.±1.72,457±8067.±2.539,174±2,20187.±2.011,379±1,36322.±2.626,049±2,02280.±3.042±470.±0.11,039±5272.±1.037±430.±0.1758±3441.±0.817,131±1,67433.±3.1782±4212.±1.30±280.±0.1134±1440.±0.30±280.±0.12,824±7026.±1.58,692±1,42917.±2.61,147±4853.±1.51,241±5342.±1.28,281±1,26716.±2.31,824±5235.±1.544,832±2,31644,832(X)51,153±2,47251,153(X)32,296±2,19332,296(X)3,035±7806.±1.710,878±1,61421.±2.82,873±7368.±2.341,797±2,22393.±1.740,275±2,23578.±2.829,423±2,20991.±2.344,593±2,32644,593(X)51,124±2,47251,124(X)32,201±2,19932,201(X)41,921±2,23694.±1.346,081±2,42390.±1.530,265±2,13194.±1.531,176±1,81769.±2.430,432±1,80859.±2.021,949±1,63668.±4.215,755±1,53935.±2.719,726±1,60338.±2.412,112±1,67337.±3.72,672±6056.±1.35,043±7889.±1.51,936±4836.±1.544,593±2,32644,593(X)51,124±2,47251,124(X)32,201±2,19932,201(X)4,145±5989.±1.24,803±5819.±1.13,134±4869.±1.6ZCTA5 11413ZCTA5 11420ZCTA5 11422Page 25 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error19,733±1,81719,733(X)19,554±1,48119,554(X)27,845±1,85627,845(X)10,075±84651.±2.39,703±79849.±1.913,147±1,01247.±2.29,658±1,15048.±2.39,851±85050.±1.914,698±1,22452.±2.2104.3±9.6(X)(X)98.5±7.3(X)(X)89.4±8.1(X)(X)1,244±2946.±1.4975±3105.±1.51,097±2663.±0.9750±2243.±1.1667±1923.±1.01,137±2504.±0.81,027±3575.±1.5939±2164.±1.11,574±3485.±1.2818±2064.±1.01,012±2165.±1.01,781±4036.±1.21,249±2616.±1.31,400±3577.±1.82,594±3889.±1.22,354±42611.±2.02,594±45913.±2.03,374±44312.±1.32,322±54111.±2.11,890±3469.±1.73,261±44111.±1.62,488±40812.±2.13,028±43415.±1.74,337±60315.±1.81,369±3316.±1.81,377±2707.±1.31,985±4467.±1.51,438±3187.±1.71,510±3317.±1.81,808±2926.±0.93,022±62415.±2.72,482±50412.±2.62,316±3388.±1.21,133±3705.±1.71,314±6136.±3.01,668±4576.±1.6519±1852.±1.0366±2051.±1.0913±2633.±0.945.6±2.7(X)(X)45.9±2.1(X)(X)41.8±2.3(X)(X)19,733±1,81719,733(X)19,554±1,48119,554(X)27,845±1,85627,845(X)17,958±1,85791.±2.717,460±1,36089.±2.425,528±1,75091.±3.11,775±5169.±2.72,094±51610.±2.42,317±9058.±3.117,958±1,85791.±2.717,460±1,36089.±2.425,528±1,75091.±3.15,340±83827.±4.12,305±49311.±2.51,445±5375.±1.91,165±4335.±2.24,074±84720.±3.918,682±1,74967.±4.30±210.±0.277±590.±0.3364±3121.±1.19,252±1,56546.±5.86,245±84531.±4.22,067±5617.±2.00±210.±0.20±210.±0.20±250.±0.12,201±86911.±4.14,759±1,10824.±5.02,970±78410.±2.81,775±5169.±2.72,094±51610.±2.42,317±9058.±3.119,733±1,81719,733(X)19,554±1,48119,554(X)27,845±1,85627,845(X)3,546±93418.±4.35,120±1,01326.±4.64,182±93915.±3.416,187±1,61582.±4.314,434±1,31973.±4.623,663±2,01185.±3.419,708±1,81819,708(X)19,552±1,48019,552(X)27,816±1,85527,816(X)18,482±1,69293.±2.918,140±1,43192.±1.525,786±1,67292.±1.613,918±1,62970.±4.611,808±1,12460.±4.617,557±1,38263.±3.27,284±1,08837.±4.88,324±1,09942.±4.210,819±1,01238.±2.91,226±6046.±2.91,412±3037.±1.52,030±5047.±1.619,708±1,81819,708(X)19,552±1,48019,552(X)27,816±1,85527,816(X)1,702±3658.±1.72,194±39611.±1.93,214±54811.±1.9ZCTA5 11426ZCTA5 11428ZCTA5 11429Page 26 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error68,182±2,80468,182(X)59,961±2,65859,961(X)70,365±3,33570,365(X)30,515±1,60744.±1.330,329±1,71750.±1.633,411±2,40347.±2.037,667±1,69655.±1.329,632±1,57149.±1.636,954±1,84752.±2.081±4.2(X)(X)102.4±6.6(X)(X)90.4±7.1(X)(X)4,219±6716.±0.94,837±7918.±1.26,048±9278.±1.24,424±6486.±0.93,446±5075.±0.85,329±8947.±1.14,094±6076.±0.83,277±6045.±0.96,490±9299.±1.14,422±7236.±0.93,098±4435.±0.84,981±6307.±0.94,103±5816.±0.83,408±6025.±1.04,216±7146.±1.08,481±77012.±1.211,058±1,11618.±1.68,842±1,06712.±1.38,742±86412.±1.17,556±70312.±1.07,900±89311.±1.19,709±76914.±1.07,912±81313.±1.28,252±1,20911.±1.54,802±8647.±1.24,121±5886.±1.03,860±5975.±0.94,637±5266.±0.83,362±4565.±0.74,157±6045.±0.96,305±6829.±1.04,589±5887.±1.05,617±6808.±1.02,836±3284.±0.52,479±6554.±1.13,272±5134.±0.81,408±3962.±0.6818±2431.±0.41,401±2652.±0.440±1.4(X)(X)36.1±0.9(X)(X)33.7±2.3(X)(X)68,182±2,80468,182(X)59,961±2,65859,961(X)70,365±3,33570,365(X)64,157±2,87894.±1.456,545±2,51394.±1.362,555±3,47888.±2.34,025±9225.±1.43,416±8345.±1.37,810±1,65511.±2.364,157±2,87894.±1.456,545±2,51394.±1.362,555±3,47888.±2.32,687±7723.±1.19,595±1,30016.±2.120,338±2,30428.±3.154,552±3,01380.±2.414,971±1,50625.±2.430,553±2,80043.±3.7133±1720.±0.3601±5141.±0.9149±1660.±0.22,039±6483.±1.013,860±1,63423.±2.52,978±1,4164.±1.90±310.±0.10±310.±0.136±580.±0.14,746±9007.±1.317,518±2,08729.±3.28,501±2,09012.±2.84,025±9225.±1.43,416±8345.±1.37,810±1,65511.±2.368,182±2,80468,182(X)59,961±2,65859,961(X)70,365±3,33570,365(X)7,993±1,45911.±2.117,541±2,16829.±3.218,124±2,19525.±2.860,189±2,90588.±2.142,420±2,46370.±3.252,241±3,14474.±2.867,749±2,80867,749(X)59,679±2,65659,679(X)68,445±3,33168,445(X)63,036±2,71193.±1.054,535±2,40991.±1.561,860±3,27990.±1.939,826±2,40258.±2.529,238±1,87349.±2.933,228±3,07148.±3.728,520±1,89442.±2.429,248±2,07949.±2.435,292±2,51651.±3.54,713±7387.±1.05,144±9368.±1.56,585±1,3569.±1.967,749±2,80867,749(X)59,679±2,65659,679(X)68,445±3,33168,445(X)7,731±83611.±1.15,175±6478.±1.09,035±1,07013.±1.7ZCTA5 11691ZCTA5 11434ZCTA5 11435Page 27 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error24,584±1,86624,584(X)27,874±1,61827,874(X)39,753±1,68139,753(X)12,107±1,28649.±2.612,758±95845.±2.419,369±1,10848.±1.712,477±95050.±2.615,116±1,13854.±2.420,384±1,04951.±1.797±10.2(X)(X)84.4±8.1(X)(X)95±6.5(X)(X)1,708±4156.±1.51,272±4364.±1.51,816±3764.±0.91,985±4108.±1.51,344±2844.±0.91,769±3124.±0.82,433±4989.±1.71,678±4196.±1.32,255±3215.±0.81,398±3045.±1.11,926±4506.±1.62,248±3775.±0.91,570±3686.±1.32,051±4397.±1.52,570±6456.±1.62,392±4439.±1.73,289±61111.±1.95,504±63613.±1.63,714±47715.±1.62,690±4349.±1.54,343±50410.±1.23,236±48513.±1.94,856±67017.±2.35,184±62913.±1.51,371±2975.±1.22,078±3857.±1.33,814±5749.±1.41,836±3397.±1.41,613±3835.±1.33,141±5727.±1.41,690±3776.±1.52,481±3738.±1.43,668±4819.±1.2968±3143.±1.31,532±4485.±1.62,165±4095.±1.0283±1071.±0.41,064±3113.±1.21,276±3533.±0.937.1±1.5(X)(X)44.4±2.6(X)(X)43.7±2.3(X)(X)24,584±1,86624,584(X)27,874±1,61827,874(X)39,753±1,68139,753(X)21,750±1,71388.±3.424,683±1,72688.±3.737,380±1,68094.±1.32,834±90511.±3.43,191±1,04511.±3.72,373±5126.±1.321,750±1,71388.±3.424,683±1,72688.±3.737,380±1,68094.±1.34,698±81619.±3.011,600±1,21541.±4.428,131±1,71070.±3.114,210±1,46057.±4.39,358±1,33533.±4.25,456±81413.±2.048±530.±0.298±1020.±0.462±400.±0.11,129±4404.±1.8313±2171.±0.8727±3311.±0.80±250.±0.27±110.±0.10±280.±0.11,665±5916.±2.43,307±1,45611.±5.13,004±5897.±1.42,834±90511.±3.43,191±1,04511.±3.72,373±5126.±1.324,584±1,86624,584(X)27,874±1,61827,874(X)39,753±1,68139,753(X)6,123±1,22424.±4.06,878±1,34924.±4.36,968±83717.±2.018,461±1,44275.±4.020,996±1,51275.±4.332,785±1,61082.±2.023,778±1,85723,778(X)27,374±1,61727,374(X)39,394±1,68139,394(X)22,530±1,78494.±1.625,961±1,48594.±1.837,630±1,57295.±1.113,055±1,46054.±4.519,829±1,49372.±3.831,934±1,63181.±2.011,320±1,37247.±4.610,081±1,16036.±4.111,485±94429.±2.51,248±4025.±1.61,413±5205.±1.81,764±4404.±1.123,778±1,85723,778(X)27,374±1,61727,374(X)39,394±1,68139,394(X)2,836±45511.±2.03,147±48511.±1.84,378±55011.±1.3ZCTA5 11692ZCTA5 11701ZCTA5 11704Page 28 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error65,437±2,98365,437(X)64,969±2,88264,969(X)37,032±2,42037,032(X)33,200±1,94150.±1.532,976±1,96050.±1.718,925±1,57551.±2.132,237±1,63949.±1.531,993±1,63949.±1.718,107±1,29648.±2.1103±6.3(X)(X)103.1±6.9(X)(X)104.5±8.8(X)(X)4,057±5716.±0.83,967±6466.±0.92,433±5956.±1.44,504±7366.±1.03,941±5496.±0.81,924±4585.±1.24,661±6537.±0.94,202±5226.±0.82,800±4347.±1.13,740±4475.±0.73,946±4996.±0.73,617±5519.±1.44,193±5926.±0.94,838±6537.±1.02,614±4967.±1.19,275±1,16314.±1.510,390±1,07816.±1.45,388±85514.±2.09,771±1,22014.±1.59,392±1,20514.±1.65,586±66615.±1.88,820±77113.±1.29,339±79014.±1.14,684±64612.±1.64,110±4776.±0.83,672±4805.±0.72,188±5665.±1.53,783±6045.±0.94,096±5836.±0.91,841±3155.±0.94,888±5097.±0.84,227±5176.±0.82,351±3536.±0.92,592±3944.±0.61,921±3343.±0.51,345±3233.±0.91,043±2791.±0.41,038±3621.±0.6261±1260.±0.437.5±1.0(X)(X)36.1±1.0(X)(X)34.4±2.0(X)(X)65,437±2,98365,437(X)64,969±2,88264,969(X)37,032±2,42037,032(X)58,491±2,83289.±2.255,070±2,96984.±2.930,385±2,36282.±5.06,946±1,49910.±2.29,899±1,95415.±2.96,647±2,01617.±5.058,491±2,83289.±2.255,070±2,96984.±2.930,385±2,36282.±5.035,051±2,33753.±3.323,075±2,34035.±3.613,348±1,60836.±3.77,988±1,22912.±2.010,277±2,33115.±3.47,481±94420.±2.7640±4781.±0.7721±4571.±0.7110±960.±0.34,047±1,7046.±2.51,692±7252.±1.1737±2952.±0.89±160.±0.183±950.±0.121±270.±0.110,756±1,99516.±2.819,222±2,47229.±3.58,688±1,74023.±4.46,946±1,49910.±2.29,899±1,95415.±2.96,647±2,01617.±5.065,437±2,98365,437(X)64,969±2,88264,969(X)37,032±2,42037,032(X)25,878±2,59639.±3.347,343±3,07872.±3.122,026±2,47959.±4.039,559±2,61760.±3.317,626±2,06627.±3.115,006±1,37340.±4.065,322±2,98165,322(X)64,256±2,89064,256(X)37,013±2,42037,013(X)60,525±2,85992.±1.456,959±2,81488.±1.833,298±2,36290.±2.545,626±2,65069.±2.439,791±2,51961.±2.722,759±2,23661.±4.322,832±1,74135.±2.422,525±1,63435.±2.213,814±1,43737.±3.44,797±9647.±1.47,297±1,21711.±1.83,715±96010.±2.565,322±2,98165,322(X)64,256±2,89064,256(X)37,013±2,42037,013(X)6,233±6449.±1.16,021±7479.±1.13,408±5949.±1.6ZCTA5 11706ZCTA5 11717ZCTA5 11722Page 29 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error22,059±2,02922,059(X)67,663±2,01067,663(X)13,501±1,23713,501(X)11,160±1,09050.±2.634,412±1,13350.±1.06,597±82648.±2.910,899±1,23549.±2.633,251±1,27449.±1.06,904±62451.±2.9102.4±10.7(X)(X)103.5±4.1(X)(X)95.6±11.2(X)(X)1,616±5627.±2.23,390±4185.±0.6677±2035.±1.41,016±2844.±1.44,246±5196.±0.7602±1944.±1.31,890±6238.±2.34,013±5455.±0.8608±1814.±1.31,427±3456.±1.54,396±5356.±0.7661±1624.±1.31,646±3717.±1.63,886±4685.±0.7636±1934.±1.42,344±41210.±1.87,585±84211.±1.21,890±38614.±2.63,461±77415.±2.68,565±72712.±1.01,581±26711.±1.92,745±53212.±2.59,269±92213.±1.31,699±33612.±2.11,581±4167.±1.95,784±9238.±1.31,163±2168.±1.51,468±3376.±1.55,328±6757.±1.01,296±3179.±2.41,780±3088.±1.56,326±6879.±1.01,456±61110.±4.1743±1753.±0.93,806±4915.±0.7813±2636.±2.1342±1261.±0.61,069±2491.±0.4419±2973.±2.238.9±2.7(X)(X)42±1.5(X)(X)45.6±3.6(X)(X)22,059±2,02922,059(X)67,663±2,01067,663(X)13,501±1,23713,501(X)17,883±1,43281.±6.862,419±2,24892.±1.812,478±1,17192.±4.04,176±1,74218.±6.85,244±1,2097.±1.81,023±5647.±4.017,883±1,43281.±6.862,419±2,24892.±1.812,478±1,17192.±4.08,869±1,10640.±5.645,507±2,11667.±2.410,736±1,08679.±4.73,585±86216.±3.74,818±8707.±1.3433±2783.±2.1269±1981.±0.9909±4041.±0.60±210.±0.3297±1861.±0.95,677±8558.±1.2832±3926.±2.90±250.±0.20±310.±0.10±210.±0.34,863±1,19722.±5.35,508±1,2998.±1.9477±2913.±2.14,176±1,74218.±6.85,244±1,2097.±1.81,023±5647.±4.022,059±2,02922,059(X)67,663±2,01067,663(X)13,501±1,23713,501(X)10,392±1,66547.±5.212,997±1,51719.±2.11,752±80313.±5.311,667±1,36452.±5.254,666±1,94880.±2.111,749±95087.±5.322,054±2,02922,054(X)67,488±2,01367,488(X)13,497±1,23713,497(X)20,800±1,87994.±1.964,483±2,06595.±1.013,003±1,19996.±1.214,822±2,01067.±5.452,354±2,21277.±2.010,781±1,04679.±5.08,253±1,03337.±5.319,905±1,19529.±1.74,345±82332.±5.21,254±4475.±1.93,005±6434.±1.0494±1713.±1.222,054±2,02922,054(X)67,488±2,01367,488(X)13,497±1,23713,497(X)1,595±3257.±1.66,235±9989.±1.41,742±42512.±3.0ZCTA5 11726ZCTA5 11746ZCTA5 11751Page 30 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 1LabelSEX AND AGE (Census Table DP05)Total populationMaleFemaleSex ratio (males per 100 females)Under 5 years5 to 9 years10 to 14 years15 to 19 years20 to 24 years25 to 34 years35 to 44 years45 to 54 years55 to 59 years60 to 64 years65 to 74 years75 to 84 years85 years and overMedian age (years)RACE (Census Table DP05) Total populationOne raceTwo or more racesOne raceWhiteBlack or African AmericanAmerican Indian and Alaska NativeAsianNative Hawaiian and Other Pacific IslanderSome other raceTwo or more racesHISPANIC OR LATINO AND RACE (Census Table DP05)Total populationHispanic or Latino (of any race)Not Hispanic or LatinoHEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE (Census Table DP03) Civilian noninstitutionalized populationWith health insurance coverageWith private health insuranceWith public coverageNo health insurance coverageDISABILITY STATUS OF THE CIVILIAN NONINSTITUTIONALIZED POPULATION (Census Table DP02)Total Civilian Noninstitutionalized PopulationWith a disabilityEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of ErrorEstimateMargin of ErrorPercentPercent Margin of Error45,082±1,45245,082(X)18,355±1,35518,355(X)26,860±2,55526,860(X)22,597±87250.±1.49,257±96450.±3.413,729±1,52051.±2.122,485±1,06149.±1.49,098±89249.±3.413,131±1,25848.±2.1100.5±5.7(X)(X)101.7±14.0(X)(X)104.6±8.6(X)(X)2,375±4345.±1.01,116±2896.±1.51,259±3524.±1.21,982±3554.±0.81,257±2816.±1.51,794±4186.±1.42,899±4726.±1.11,630±3618.±1.81,759±5896.±1.82,740±5416.±1.21,281±3217.±1.61,672±3686.±1.42,477±3925.±0.91,384±3337.±1.81,728±4766.±1.66,428±81714.±1.92,395±42413.±2.23,341±50012.±1.75,507±61812.±1.42,378±72413.±3.63,528±66813.±2.16,060±73313.±1.62,664±38914.±2.13,426±59512.±1.83,884±8898.±1.81,329±2717.±1.53,022±69111.±2.13,648±5168.±1.2903±2754.±1.51,742±3576.±1.33,760±4868.±1.11,295±3127.±1.62,709±44210.±1.72,239±4535.±1.0489±1242.±0.7510±1651.±0.61,083±3552.±0.7234±1021.±0.5370±2871.±1.141±1.5(X)(X)36.1±3.0(X)(X)41±2.0(X)(X)45,082±1,45245,082(X)18,355±1,35518,355(X)26,860±2,55526,860(X)42,479±1,55994.±1.515,875±1,42886.±4.725,334±2,59294.±2.02,603±6545.±1.52,480±88813.±4.71,526±5215.±2.042,479±1,55994.±1.515,875±1,42886.±4.725,334±2,59294.±2.035,730±1,90779.±3.42,117±67711.±3.720,190±2,43275.±4.92,108±7104.±1.610,114±1,08655.±5.02,290±8868.±3.134±300.±0.17±110.±0.122±350.±0.11,116±5342.±1.2401±3332.±1.81,426±5715.±2.20±280.±0.10±210.±0.27±140.±0.13,491±9697.±2.13,236±94717.±4.91,399±6835.±2.42,603±6545.±1.52,480±88813.±4.71,526±5215.±2.045,082±1,45245,082(X)18,355±1,35518,355(X)26,860±2,55526,860(X)8,012±1,24317.±2.85,731±92931.±4.15,772±1,56221.±5.237,070±1,82682.±2.812,624±1,07468.±4.121,088±2,32278.±5.245,082±1,45245,082(X)18,293±1,35618,293(X)26,836±2,55926,836(X)43,526±1,40996.±0.716,949±1,37492.±2.225,601±2,50295.±1.635,324±1,51278.±2.411,199±1,22561.±5.220,251±2,41675.±4.213,906±1,28530.±2.67,810±1,17442.±5.18,695±1,43532.±4.81,556±3273.±0.71,344±3977.±2.21,235±4394.±1.645,082±1,45245,082(X)18,293±1,35618,293(X)26,836±2,55926,836(X)4,950±56511.±1.22,329±44212.±2.32,566±5449.±1.9ZCTA5 11757ZCTA5 11798ZCTA5 11967Page 31 of 31NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 2GEO_IDNAMEDP03_0119PEDP03_0119PMDP03_0062EDP03_0062MDP03_0074PEDP03_0074PMDP03_0005PEDP03_0005PMDP02_0067PEDP02_0067PMDP04_0058PEDP04_0058PMGeographyZCTA NamePercent!!PERCENTAGE OF FAMILIES AND PEOPLE WHOSE INCOME IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS IS BELOW THE POVERTY LEVEL!!All familiesPercent Margin of Error!!PERCENTAGE OF FAMILIES AND PEOPLE WHOSE INCOME IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS IS BELOW THE POVERTY LEVEL!!All familiesEstimate!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!Median household income (dollars)Margin of Error!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!Median household income (dollars)Percent!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!With Food Stamp/SNAP benefits in the past 12 monthsPercent Margin of Error!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!With Food Stamp/SNAP benefits in the past 12 monthsPercent!!EMPLOYMENT STATUS!!Population 16 years and over!!In labor force!!Civilian labor force!!UnemployedPercent Margin of Error!!EMPLOYMENT STATUS!!Population 16 years and over!!In labor force!!Civilian labor force!!UnemployedPercent!!EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT!!Population 25 years and over!!High school graduate or higherPercent Margin of Error!!EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT!!Population 25 years and over!!High school graduate or higherPercent!!VEHICLES AVAILABLE!!Occupied housing units!!No vehicles availablePercent Margin of Error!!VEHICLES AVAILABLE!!Occupied housing units!!No vehicles available860Z200US11001ZCTA5 110012.61.1145325101754.81.72.71.191.41.35.81.5860Z200US11003ZCTA5 110032.71.311944874646.51.44.9187.22.173.2860Z200US11010ZCTA5 110103.21.713637848653.81.22.80.890.923.81.3860Z200US11020ZCTA5 110205.74.21733453347410.591.90.994.726.23.5860Z200US11021ZCTA5 110214.63111777117066.82.72.80.994.41.510.62.5860Z200US11023ZCTA5 110235.73.7146563466958.17.41.30.894.648.77860Z200US11024ZCTA5 110243.84.1160273185683.32.22.51.789.54.454860Z200US11030ZCTA5 110302.71.4232821342320.50.41.20.597.413.82.3860Z200US11040ZCTA5 110402.60.914417482613.21.130.892.91.15.31.5860Z200US11042ZCTA5 110420 **0011.871.611.10860Z200US11050ZCTA5 110503.62.2152020159992.11.52.20.595.51.272.2860Z200US11096ZCTA5 1109614.8772348997621.863.41.973.56246860Z200US11501ZCTA5 115013.21.5130208143793.11.82.71.188.537.52.5860Z200US11507ZCTA5 115071.31.11458332219542.72.11.293.83.46.83.7860Z200US11509ZCTA5 115090.81.215592578841.81.51.20.897.81.43.82.3860Z200US11510ZCTA5 115103.61.9135693847941.43.10.993.41.34.81.5860Z200US11514ZCTA5 115145.24.3110865238651.82.22.1296.71.74.83.5860Z200US11516ZCTA5 115160298333252780.40.74.2297.21.814.27.8860Z200US11518ZCTA5 115183.73.51102801574121.94.63.292.32.97.43.5860Z200US11520ZCTA5 115205.11.811015284437.71.641.183.52102.1860Z200US11530ZCTA5 115301.50.7186300224781.50.82.30.696.21.76.72860Z200US11542ZCTA5 1154212.34.69177467357.62.32.20.885.53.311.52.6860Z200US11545ZCTA5 115451.40.9164306288941.30.91.90.696.71.11.40.7860Z200US11547ZCTA5 11547025.5 **016.107.892.27.77.510.2860Z200US11548ZCTA5 11548011.1102188819003.24.85.63.5944.84.45.5860Z200US11549ZCTA5 115490 **042.4100490860Z200US11550ZCTA5 1155013.42.583333813119.72.75.5175.72.2202.3860Z200US11552ZCTA5 115523.42.11474681604041.63.81.292.52.25.12.1860Z200US11553ZCTA5 115534.72.210206695587.32.43.80.9784.29.83.1860Z200US11554ZCTA5 115542.81.612926883914.51.620.892.31.792.9860Z200US11556ZCTA5 115560 **0000860Z200US11557ZCTA5 115572.22.1162266109702.72.41.9194.32.821.7860Z200US11558ZCTA5 115584.13.510425381574.52.93.21.694.82.24.13.1860Z200US11559ZCTA5 115592.12.5129732536575.23.52.11.3894.68.64860Z200US11560ZCTA5 1156042.5162143254370.80.831.590.33.93.21.7860Z200US11561ZCTA5 115614.21.913004698753.71.22.90.896.119.11.9860Z200US11563ZCTA5 115634.51.9137828143183.81.62.40.891.62.38.12.1860Z200US11565ZCTA5 115653.82.9153582172012.51.81.7197.41.43.12.1860Z200US11566ZCTA5 115661.40.8172868136420.90.42.10.895.81.12.10.8860Z200US11568ZCTA5 1156833250,000+***1.11.24.2298.6123.2860Z200US11569ZCTA5 115695.78.5104386924852.94.51.51.9982.422.721.5860Z200US11570ZCTA5 115702.62149420137563.21.53.41.194.51.59.72.4860Z200US11572ZCTA5 115721.71.213461577432.60.93.90.994.41.43.61.2860Z200US11575ZCTA5 1157573.91230562025610.74.33.41.3823.363860Z200US11576ZCTA5 115762.51.8224698205790.10.12.51.198.40.94.62.6860Z200US11577ZCTA5 115771.81.2191607193942.11.42.1197.21.13.92.1860Z200US11579ZCTA5 115790.91.4181375355653.42.98.610.797.21.32.42.7860Z200US11580ZCTA5 115802.11.1132632104225.723.30.889.62.47.52.1860Z200US11581ZCTA5 115813.72.113506084253.71.73.21.290.82.36.52.4860Z200US11590ZCTA5 1159041.513334976405.41.92.20.584.91.75.71.8860Z200US11596ZCTA5 115962.61.6157273169270.70.62.10.996.21.73.12.1860Z200US11598ZCTA5 115982.12.81798461493522.43.91.795.12.44.73.2860Z200US11709ZCTA5 117091.11.2136346252452.91.821.195.2210.47.9860Z200US11710ZCTA5 117101.60.9167039101542.41.22.10.796.813.61.2860Z200US11714ZCTA5 117142.41.512347382132.41.42.60.994.21.74.73860Z200US11732ZCTA5 1173204.7116705303767.27.42.72990.777860Z200US11735ZCTA5 117352.1114324278603.41.13.71.392.81.66.61.6860Z200US11753ZCTA5 117531.51.3172983190561.71.24.41.894.22.16.33.1860Z200US11756ZCTA5 117561.70.714144289782.40.94.21931.32.81860Z200US11758ZCTA5 117582.61.2146410116521.70.62.70.896.312.91.1860Z200US11762ZCTA5 117622.31.3160139110250.60.53.11.397.20.841.3860Z200US11765ZCTA5 117652.92.7250,000+***015.63.92.595.63.2015.6860Z200US11771ZCTA5 117715.74.1149577351950.60.63.21.795.32.683.7860Z200US11783ZCTA5 117831.51.1157983139892.81.23.10.896.51.12.21.1860Z200US11791ZCTA5 1179142.1190347177653.51.63.21.396.21.22.10.8860Z200US11793ZCTA5 117932.81.1164773108223.11.22.20.796.51.12.91860Z200US11797ZCTA5 117971.51.4193866365951.91.40.90.595.61.43.92860Z200US11801ZCTA5 118015.42.7138289101383.61.42.30.791.22.13.71.2860Z200US11803ZCTA5 118031.81.117919795241.912.40.897.20.76.41.9860Z200US11804ZCTA5 118041.31.8173750477535.83.51.51.398.51.18.45.1860Z200US11411ZCTA5 114113.31.511701859089.52.23.70.892.51.212.82.4860Z200US11412ZCTA5 1141271.796094730216.72.33.10.789.41.320.32.4860Z200US11413ZCTA5 114133.41111065490511.82.33.20.791.71.115.41.9860Z200US11420ZCTA5 114208.21.797919609513.92.65.71.378.11.918.52.6860Z200US11422ZCTA5 114226.43.6101416759210.62.94.5189.21.818.12.8860Z200US11426ZCTA5 114264.92.7112325121307.12.631.288.32.910.84860Z200US11428ZCTA5 114289.63.389593118277.72.84.81.182.13.220.25.4860Z200US11429ZCTA5 114294.71.8957211131215.13.76.71.3852.520.45.5860Z200US11434ZCTA5 114348.12.371728254414.7261871.5272.9Page 1 of 2NYULH LI Women's Wellness Clinic Scoping Sheet 2GEO_IDNAMEDP03_0119PEDP03_0119PMDP03_0062EDP03_0062MDP03_0074PEDP03_0074PMDP03_0005PEDP03_0005PMDP02_0067PEDP02_0067PMDP04_0058PEDP04_0058PMGeographyZCTA NamePercent!!PERCENTAGE OF FAMILIES AND PEOPLE WHOSE INCOME IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS IS BELOW THE POVERTY LEVEL!!All familiesPercent Margin of Error!!PERCENTAGE OF FAMILIES AND PEOPLE WHOSE INCOME IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS IS BELOW THE POVERTY LEVEL!!All familiesEstimate!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!Median household income (dollars)Margin of Error!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!Median household income (dollars)Percent!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!With Food Stamp/SNAP benefits in the past 12 monthsPercent Margin of Error!!INCOME AND BENEFITS (IN 2022 INFLATION ADJUSTED DOLLARS)!!Total households!!With Food Stamp/SNAP benefits in the past 12 monthsPercent!!EMPLOYMENT STATUS!!Population 16 years and over!!In labor force!!Civilian labor force!!UnemployedPercent Margin of Error!!EMPLOYMENT STATUS!!Population 16 years and over!!In labor force!!Civilian labor force!!UnemployedPercent!!EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT!!Population 25 years and over!!High school graduate or higherPercent Margin of Error!!EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT!!Population 25 years and over!!High school graduate or higherPercent!!VEHICLES AVAILABLE!!Occupied housing units!!No vehicles availablePercent Margin of Error!!VEHICLES AVAILABLE!!Occupied housing units!!No vehicles available860Z200US11435ZCTA5 1143510.82.576915390015.92.57.71.380.42.137.63.6860Z200US11691ZCTA5 1169115.42.759153744331.33.65.51.179.8243.23.2860Z200US11692ZCTA5 11692184.257687851227.33.84.71.4842.938.53.9860Z200US11701ZCTA5 117016.52.997299893410.62.931.385.53.112.53.8860Z200US11704ZCTA5 117043.81.412014733506.61.84.71.188.42.55.71.5860Z200US11706ZCTA5 117066.42.6110965706511.52.530.784.81.862860Z200US11717ZCTA5 117175.32.1111425978912.72.63.10.8702.810.63.1860Z200US11722ZCTA5 117226.82.71003871022814.233.10.975.2310.93860Z200US11726ZCTA5 1172693.91171131562411.93.73.61.581.53.53.81.9860Z200US11746ZCTA5 117464.91.314615062086.91.43.80.789.11.45.61.4860Z200US11751ZCTA5 117513.32.4114185200914.32.43.5287.75.68.85.6860Z200US11757ZCTA5 117574.82.111718261715.41.340.891.21.93.71.3860Z200US11798ZCTA5 117989.34944097005295.63.31.372.65.518.95.2860Z200US11967ZCTA5 1196751.810901998017.4241.789.92.13.61.5Page 2 of 2


1 July 2024New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment Template Refer to the Instructions for Health Equity Impact Assessment Template for detailed instructions on each section. SECTION A. SUMMARY 1. Title of project Hempstead Women's Wellness Relocation to 175 Fulton 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Jenné Massie, DrPH, MS • Melissa Corrado, MBA • Sydne Ashford 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has nearly 30 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with 20 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is a professor and Chair of the Department of Urban Education at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health 2 July 2024equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health equity. Jenné Massie is the Deputy Director of the Intersectionality Research Institute and a Faculty Senior Research Associate and Project Director for the MOCHA Lab at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She also serves as a Commissioner of the DC Department of Health Regional Planning Commission on Health and HIV and the Chair of the Community Engagement and Education Committee. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. Sydne Ashford is a Consulting Associate in CohnReznick’s Healthcare Industry Practice. She serves ambulatory care facilities, such as Federally Qualified Health Centers, hospitals, and mental health focused organizations, and specializes in Medicaid rate setting and cost reporting, financial and regulatory reporting, financial feasibility studies, and financial and operational performance. She also supports program development and strategic business planning efforts. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 05/10/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 07/23/2024 7. Executive summary of project (250 words max) The project proposes relocating the Women’s Wellness Clinic half a mile down the street, from 1 Fulton Avenue to the 7th floor of 175 Fulton Avenue. This move will co locate the Women’s Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic and enable patients to have more convenient, easier access to services for themselves and their children. The services will remain the same. The new location has an existing parking deck, which provides more parking than the current location’s surface lot. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) 3 July 2024Based on our engagement of community members, the stakeholders most affected by the project will be Latina women in Hempstead and the surrounding area of Long Island who are low income, newly arrived immigrants, and/or non Native English speakers. The engagement highlighted the significant benefit for these stakeholders as the move of women’s health services to the new location adjacent the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic makes accessing services for mothers and their children more convenient and easier by reducing the burden of scheduling and attending both their own appointments and their children’s appointments. Stakeholders also highlighted the new location is closer to known landmarks, which makes it easier to find for new immigrants, and near community based services, such as the local health department’s food pantry. Some stakeholders wanted to ensure that there would be adequate, easy to find free parking. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT For all questions in Section B, please include sources, data, and information referenced whenever possible. If the Independent Entity determines a question is not applicable to the project, write N/A and provide justification. STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area: Complete the “Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2” in the document “HEIA Data Tables”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance about what each Scoping Table Sheet requires. Please see Scoping Sheets 1 and 2 in the “LI Women's Wellness HEIA Scoping Tables” document. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project: ✓ Low income people ✓ Racial and ethnic minorities ✓ Immigrants ✓ Women ❑ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people ✓ People with disabilities ❑ Older adults ❑ Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition ❑ Persons living in rural areas ✓ People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits ❑ People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage ❑ Other people who are unable to obtain health care 4 July 2024❑ Not listed (specify): 3. For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? We leveraged NYULH internal data along with integral qualitative demographic assessments about patient populations from clinical and administrative leads of the Women’s Wellness Clinic. While the Applicant collects internal data, it does not identify immigration status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. Further information about specific medically underserved groups of the patient population served by the Women’s Wellness Clinic was collected with the following publicly available data: • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Immigrants American Community Survey, 2022 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2022 • People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits American Community Survey, 2022 Identification of medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project required a combination of internal and external data sources. 4. How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? The proposed project involves relocating the Women’s Wellness Clinic half a mile down the street, from 1 Fulton Avenue to the 7th floor of 175 Fulton Avenue. This relocation will co locate the Women’s Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic. This relocation will enhance the patient experience for several medically underserved groups by providing immediate and easy access to multiple healthcare services for families in one convenient location. The Women’s Wellness Clinic will be located next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic, allowing women and their children to both be seen by clinicians in one building. 5 July 2024By moving the clinic down the street, the Applicant reduces physical barriers to receiving care, which is often a stressful experience for patients and their families. It also moves the clinic closer to other services for low income women (e.g., the local health department’s food pantry). We expect that the greatest positive impact of the relocation of services will be experienced by: Low income people and people who are eligible for or receive public health benefits will have to spend less time navigating the shared corporate plaza offices at 1 Fulton Avenue and decrease the number of visits for their families, which are critical when balancing work and care responsibilities. They also will have access to more free parking through a parking deck rather than the current surface lot. The Applicant’s data showed that of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment—with Medicaid as a as a proxy for low income patient populations. Racial and ethnic minorities will be impacted as of patients identified as Hispanic/Latina, and identified as Black. They will all benefit from greater convenience and easier access to healthcare and community based services for them and their families. Immigrants, specifically those who are not native English speakers, as of patients indicated Spanish as their preferred language, will benefit by having streamlined co located care processes in place for themselves and their dependents, especially since they might find large shared corporate plaza offices challenging to navigate due to language barriers. People with disabilities will benefit from the reduced need to travel to different locations for their and their children’s care. This change minimizes their physical exertion and simplifies their access to care. Women will primarily be impacted because of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients identified as women and will be able to schedule their and their children’s appointments through a joint scheduling system. We do not expect that any single group will be adversely affected by this project. 5. To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? 6 July 2024Of the patients seen by NYULH’s Women’s Wellness Clinic within the service area from September 1, 2022 and August 31, 2023, relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment. Medicaid, which can be a proxy for low income patient populations. Additionally, identified as Hispanic/Latina, identified as Black, indicated Spanish as their preferred language, and of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients identified as women. (Source: NYULH Internal Data September 2022 through August 2023). The patient population at the Women’s Wellness Clinic is ethnically and racially diverse. The applicant expects to serve this same diverse patient population following the Clinic’s relocation. Access to services will not change; all services offered at 1 Fulton Avenue will continue to be offered at 175 Fulton Avenue. Operating hours will not change. The same services will be provided at the new location with the same staff from the current location at 1 Fulton Avenue. As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to immigrant populations. Therefore, the Independent Entity is unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to these groups. 1. What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? Facility Location Harmony Healthcare Long Island Hempstead, NY Planned Parenthood Hempstead Center Hempstead, NY Planned Parenthood Massapequa Health Center Massapequa, NY Nassau University Medical Center Clinic East Meadow, NY NYU Langone Health Long Island Women’s Health Associates Hempstead, NY Mount Sinai South Nassau Family Planning Outpatient Oceanside, NY Elmont Health Center Family Planning Outpatient Elmont, NY North Shore University Hospital Manhasset, NY Westbury/New Cassel Family Health Center Westbury, NY Roosevelt/Freeport Family Health Center Roosevelt, NY 2. What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? There is no historical market share accessible by the Applicant, as the only providers/entities offering similar services in the Applicant’s service are private organizations. Clinics that are managed by hospital entities, such as Nassau University Medical Center Clinic and NYULH Long Island Women’s Health Associates do not 7 July 2024submit service/care data to New York State. (Source: SPARCS New York State data). Furthermore, it is difficult to project future market share because there are no publicly available data for clinic visits for which the Applicant can use as a baseline for market share assumptions. Additionally, market share assumptions are difficult to ascertain because a hospital’s market position in any given service line also will depend largely on the activities of other hospitals (e.g., strategic service line expansions/closures), which generally cannot be predicted. 3. Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to the Applicant, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit healthcare system, NYULH’s stated mission above all is to provide the highest quality healthcare that patients deserve. The Applicant provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay and has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. In addition, the Applicant offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23. (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement NYULH received for that care in FY23.) The Applicant’s Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). The Applicant’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Description of the number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in this facility compared to the total number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in the region. NYULH is projecting 98 of visits at the Women’s Wellness Center will continue to be from Medicaid patients. A subset of the “Other” payer mix includes uninsured patients. According to US Census data, at the New York state level, the payer mix in 2022 was 42. public health insurance coverage (19. Medicare alone or in combination and 28. Medicaid alone or in combination), 65. private health insurance coverage, and 4. uninsured. 8 July 2024Description of how this compares to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents for this facility compared to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents in the region. N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 4. Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. Since there will be no changes to the services offered as a result of the project, the Applicant expects no negative staffing impacts. The Applicant will need to increase staff as patient volume increases. (They currently expect a increase in patient volume during Fiscal Year 2024 Fiscal Year 2025. Following the move, a increase in both Fiscal Year 2026 and Fiscal Year 2027 is expected.) The Applicant indicated that they develop and implement a recruitment planning process. They regularly assess staffing needs based on patient volume and service demands to ensure they have the right number and type of staff. Additionally, they indicated that they engage in recruitment and retention initiatives, such as offering competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment, to attract and retain talent. This approach is in keeping with best practices in the healthcare field. 5. Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. Following is a summary of civil rights access complaints against the Applicant, including a summary of the complaint and the current status of the complaint. Note these are not specific to Women’s Wellness Clinic. • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation: ▪ 1 related to disability access ▪ 2 related to gender discrimination • 11 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed ▪ 5 related to disability discrimination ▪ 1 related to national origin discrimination ▪ 2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color ▪ 1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status 9 July 2024o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation o 1 related to discrimination on the basis of disability, military status, national origin, domestic violence victim status, relationship or association, and opposed discrimination/retaliation is pending an open investigation 6. Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. The Applicant has not undertaken similar projects/work to this Women’s Wellness Clinic move in the last five years. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a. Improve access to services and health care b. Improve health equity c. Reduce health disparities The Women’s Wellness Clinic relocation next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic on the same floor will improve access to care for patients and their children through enabling them to go to a single location for healthcare. It also enables them to book their and their children’s appointments on the same day through a joint appointment scheduling system, thereby reducing the number of trips required and time off of work and other commitments to attend appointments. Patients also will have to spend less time navigating the shared corporate plaza offices at the current location, which can be difficult for immigrants and those with limited English proficiency. The services offered by the Women’s Wellness Clinic will remain the same and therefore will not directly impact health equity or health disparities. That said, relocating the Women’s Wellness Clinic to the same building as the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic may increase health equity and reduce disparities, provided the co location allows both mothers and their children to receive the care they need and access the social services that are near the facility. 2. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. 10July 2024 No unintended positive or negative impacts to health equity are expected as a result of the project. 3. How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. The amount of indigent care provided by the Applicant will not change as a result of the implementation of this project. In Fiscal Year 2023, the Applicant contributed $93 million in charity care. 4. Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant's service(s) or care if the project is implemented. Accessibility by public and private transportation will remain unchanged once the project is implemented. Since the Women’s Wellness Clinic will move down the street from the previous location, patients will continue to use the same public transportation (Bus n6, n15, or n31) or private/personal transportation options to get to their appointments. 5. Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. Relocation of the Women’s Wellness Clinic from 1 Fulton Ave to 175 Fulton Ave will reduce architectural barriers by eliminating patients’ need to navigate throughout an additional building for their own care in addition to care for their children, if applicable. As expected with new construction projects, the Applicant will build to all local, state, and federal code requirements and ensure ADA accessibility for patients with mobility impairments. 6. Describe how implementation of the project will impact the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services, as that term is used in Public Health Law § 2599 aa, including contraception, sterility procedures, and abortion. How will the project impact the availability and provision of reproductive and maternal health care services in the service area? How will the Applicant mitigate any potential disruptions in service availability? The project will have no impact on the facility’s delivery or availability of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services. The Women’s Wellness Clinic offers and will continue to offer pre natal and post natal care. The Clinic 11July 2024offers IUD insertion and removal procedures among other forms of contraception. The Clinic does not offer sterility procedures or abortion. Meaningful Engagement 7. List the local health department(s) located within the service area that will be impacted by the project. Nassau County Department of Health 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? The Independent Entity hosted a group call with three public health experts from the Nassau County Department of Health to elicit their inputs on this project. We spoke with Dr. Carolyn McCummings, Director for the Office of Health Equity; Nina Sculco, Directory of Community Outreach; and Hamdullah Hassan, Public Health Specialist in the Office of Health Equity. The perspectives shared with us were overwhelmingly positive about the move of the Hempstead Women’s Wellness Clinic to the new location. The DOH Office Health Equity team expressed the importance of the new location being in a central hub of Hempstead where several community based organizations that provide related supportive services are located. Their own office is located within blocks of the new site. They highlighted that the proximity facilitates coordination with and easy access to their programs, such as the food pantry where mothers can access baby formula and baby food for their infants. The Director of Health Equity saw many benefits to the new location of the Women’s Wellness Clinic being co located with a pediatric practice: “It actually impacts in a positive way. I mean, that's fantastic that now, not only will they be able to get their OB/GYN services, but you can make a double appointment and have your kids being seen the same day. So this way, you know, transportation issues. You can get like a one stop shop for the family. I think it's absolutely worth the move, even though it's not even moving that far. Even if it was moving a little further, it would be worth it because of the co location.” (Dr. McCummings) All DOH staff members on the call agreed that transportation is an overall barrier that residents in their area face in accessing OB/GYN care in that part of Long Island and praised the location for being central and easily accessible by bus. They also highlighted the importance of bilingual staff at the facility and recommended making Saturday and evening appointment times available at the clinic for shift workers and individuals who cannot attend appointments during a 9am 5pm work schedule. 12July 2024 The only potential drawback the DOH team raised was the possibility of congestion at the site given there will now be two practices in the same building. They also highlighted that often there is a lack of awareness of services in their area so focus should be placed on ensuring that women know they can access the clinic at the new location. Dr. McCummings provided a verbatim statement that can be found in the HEIA Data table Meaningful Engagement tab attached. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders: Complete the “Meaningful Engagement” table in the document titled “HEIA Data Table”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance. See Meaningful Engagement table in HEIA Data Table attached. 10. Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern the project or offered relevant input? Described in more detail in Question 11 below and based on our engagement of community members, the stakeholders most affected by the project will be Latina women in Hempstead and the surrounding area of Long Island who are low income, newly arrived immigrants, and/or non Native English speakers. The engagement highlighted the significant benefit for these stakeholders as the move of women’s health services to the new location adjacent the pediatric practice will make access services easier and more convenient for all patients and particularly these medically underserved groups: • Women in Hempstead and surrounding areas, who comprise of patients • Racial and ethnic minorities, particularly Latina women, who comprise of patients • Newly arrived immigrants and people with limited English proficiency, given that indicated Spanish as their preferred language. • Low income people • People with disabilities • People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits Stakeholders expressed one concern related to cost of parking at the new location. Although there is more parking at the new location since there is a free parking deck, one stakeholder mentioned that it is difficult to find since it is at the rear of the building and that sometimes patients risk parking tickets if they use metered parking at the front of the building. 13July 202411. How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? As part of our meaningful engagement for this Health Equity Impact Assessment, 13 current patients were engaged to be interviewed in person at the current Women’s Wellness Clinic location. Nine showed up for the interviews. We also interviewed one Women’s Wellness Clinic social worker. The stakeholders we spoke with included 10 members of a racial or ethnic minority group, 10 immigrants or refugees, 1 disabled individual, 2 individuals living in a rural area, 5 low income individuals, and 3 uninsured and 5 Medicaid insured individuals. We reached out to two community based organizations, but we did not hear back from either organization. For patients who speak Spanish as their primary language, interviews were conducted in Spanish. The interviews were then transcribed into both Spanish and English. (Note that the quotes in the Meaningful Engagement table include the original Spanish verbiage from the patient and the English translation.) One patient shared their verbatim statement in Haitian Creole, and it was translated by a Haitian Creole interpreter we contacted through the NYU Langone Health interpretation line. Described in more detail below, the project has an overall positive impact on all patients. The stakeholders most affected by the project will be Latina women in Hempstead and the surrounding area of Long Island who are low income, newly arrived immigrants, and/or non Native English speakers. Coupled with our expertise, the engagement highlighted significant benefits, notably making access to services easier and more convenient for all patients and the following medically underserved groups. Impact on women Of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients, identified as women. Therefore, they will be most impacted. The women we engaged said that the re location and particularly the co location with pediatric services, is positive. Impact on racial or ethnic minorities The proposed move benefits Latina women receiving obstetric and gynecological services in this region of Long Island. Of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients, of patients identified as Hispanic/Latina and identified as Black. Impact on immigrants and people of limited English speaking ability Of patients coming to Women’s Wellness Clinic, indicated Spanish as their preferred language. Since most of the clinical workers speak Spanish, immigrants and 14July 2024Spanish speakers seek out services at the Women’s Wellness Clinic. A staff worker explained: “We do have patients that come here from very far away, just because we do speak the language. So, we have patients from like Emeryville, we have patients from Bayshore from the Bronx coming to Women’s Wellness.” (Staff Member). Community members highlighted that the new location would be easy to navigate for newly arrived immigrants since there are familiar landmarks close to the new location. Women described support networks among the local community of Latina women (e.g., within the church) that help pregnant women and young mothers who have just arrived from another country navigate health services for themselves and their children. There are two landmarks located near the proposed location of the Women’s Wellness Clinic that the community is already familiar with: the post office and Chuck E. Cheese. These sites are already used as a reference point for directing women to the pediatric practice location and thus would be an easy reference point to direct newly arrived pregnant mothers to services. “Everyone is gonna know that there’s two points the people always go to. There is the post office, and it’s next to the Chuck E. Cheese. There are two points people know, so they get the address.” (Patient). Overall, this was seen as a positive to have less places to have to navigate as a non English speaker and/or someone who newly arrived to the area. All stakeholders we spoke with talked about the added benefit of the Women’s Wellness Clinic moving to a building where it will be co located with the pediatric clinic. “Here's [new location] gonna be so easy, especially for many people there just came from different countries, and then I see well, in my case, go to church. Most of the women they know me. They always ask me for help to them to many [sic] things like, especially when they come for medical or something…it’s gonna be so easy to just walk in the town. You can then tell them it’s just one location for pregnancy and baby.” (Patient). Furthermore, a staff member also explained that given the new location is just three blocks up the street from the current location, it will be easy for current patients to find the new location: “So, it’s [new location] within the same community. So, it would just be like three blocks on the same street. It’s not a huge inconvenience or travel (Staff Member).” 15July 2024All patients similarly responded that they did not feel any sense of inconvenience or travel burden shifting to attend their appointments at the new location. Impact on low income people Community members described that the proposed new location of the clinic is centrally located in a part of town that is easily walkable for many local residents. It is close to the major bus terminal and two bus lines stop directly across the street. In both cases, cost for transport to the new clinic location would be zero or minimal, and patients thought this was a positive to have the clinic so accessible to the community. One patient explained remarked: “It’s gonna be easy for many people. They’re coming from different places, so they can get off there [bus stop]. It’s easy.” (Patient). Stakeholders identified two additional benefits: having a pharmacy in the same complex that patients already use and the proximity to stores, which would allow them to get their shopping done while attending to their medical care. This was recognized as alleviating some of the burden on their full schedules juggling childcare and duties within their households. Additionally, the clinic social worker highlighted that a local community based organization that provides families with car seats is located in the same building, further facilitating service and resource provision to low income community members in one central location. “Another benefit of the proposed move identified by stakeholders was the ability to schedule their own OB/GYN and wellness visits alongside appointments for their children’s pediatric visits to save time. Like sometimes the people has an appointment on 9 o'clock in the morning with the OB. And they have another for kids at 11, so they can go like easy they don't have to walk or come back and then get to the other office…there is no losing time to go from one place to the other place.” (Patient). One first time birthing patient also discussed the benefits of co location describing that, as a first time mother, she found it very appealing that her baby could potentially get care at the pediatric practice adjacent to the clinic where she received her own OB/GYN care. She said it would be less stressful for her to navigate getting to two different locations. A staff member provided similar feedback. They discussed the benefits of the co location of the new Women’s Wellness Clinic and pediatric clinic: “I think for some patients, it will be better if they do have an appointment within the same day, especially for postpartum mothers. Sometimes they’ll have an appointment, and they have to go to take the baby to pediatric. So pediatricians, 16July 2024if you know, we’re in the same building, it’s very convenient for them…in that sense, it might be easier for them.” (Staff Member). In the case of Women’s Wellness Clinic, patients are relieved that the services would be co located with pediatrics. This would further enhance the ease, convenience, and time because it reduces the burden of scheduling and going to their appointments and those of their children. Conversely, some stakeholders we spoke with who already know the new location because their children are patients at the pediatric practice, noted that for those who drive, it is currently not clear that there is free parking in the rear of the building and often people end up paying for street parking in front of the facility. “What’s my concern is the parking signs that people can’t really find it because parking is at the back of the building. Most people don’t go directly there, so they find others [parking spots].” (Patient). One patient raised the concern that someone could pay the parking meter at that location with what they think are sufficient coins to cover their time but could have their visit time run longer and then risk a costly parking ticket. “Everyone knows there is street parking. But the back of the building few people know. Sometime people on [sic] the front desk, they tell you, you can go in back, but the people are like, next time…they end up parking on the street and that costs. You have to put in coins, and sometimes they [the appointments] take longer…and they get a ticket.” (Patient). The patient’s concern was that now with the addition of the Women’s Wellness Clinic being in the same building, the demand for parking will go beyond capacity for the free lot. She wondered how they will ensure patients do not have to pay for parking or get an added fee of a parking ticket when they come for OB/GYN appointments. Note: the new location has more parking in a free parking deck than the original location, which is a surface lot. Impact on people who are eligible for or receive public health benefits Based on our expertise and insights garnered from stakeholder engagement, we expect a positive impact for people who have Medicaid coverage. Patient data revealed that of Women’s Wellness Clinic patients relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment. Given that Medicaid coverage can be used as a proxy for having a low income, the same benefits that apply to people in that medically underserved groups would apply here. They will also likely benefit from the clinic being closer to community based social services where they could obtain other support. Impact on people with disabilities 17July 2024Although stakeholders did not express specific benefits for people with disabilities, we expect they will benefit because they will not have travel to different locations for their and their children’s care. This change minimizes their physical exertion and simplifies their access to care. 12. Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. The following medically underserved groups did not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the HEIA: • Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender • Age 65 or over STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a. People of limited English speaking ability b. People with speech, hearing or visual impairments c. If the Applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? Information provided by the Applicant indicates that they will communicate its services and care options to the community by using a standard, multi pronged advertising/communication plan. For individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant will translate relevant materials such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage. There will be signage at the current locations in English and Spanish announcing the move and a letter in English and Spanish sent to patients. Clinic staff will also be communicating the details of this move at patient appointments well before it takes effect. Clinic staff will also alert patients as they call for appointments and when they are at their appointments in the current clinic prior to the move. The Applicant’s advertising/communication plan will also include outreach to specific publications that target individuals who speak a language other than English, particularly Spanish. The website will be updated with messaging about the move, and there will be social media posts as well. (Note that these are mainly in English.) Regarding individuals who have speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant uses digital best practices for accessibility that are informed by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2, the industry standard to ensure users with 18July 2024disabilities (such as vision, cognitive/learning, and/or motor disabilities) can access content equitably. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Among the low income community members who identified parking as a cost concern, there were 3 recommendations to mitigate this issue: • Post signage in both English and Spanish to communicate to patients that there is free parking available at the back of the building. • Inform patients through all of the communication vehicles indicated in the communication plan (e.g., marketing flyers, press releases, patient letters). • Have designated slots for Women’s Wellness Clinic parking spots, especially since a significant portion of the patient population is pregnant women coming for their appointments. There also should be a focus on how best to coordinate with local resources that will now be within blocks of the new location, especially services that support low income women (e.g. local health department’s food pantry program providing free formula and baby food to new mothers and their babies). 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? Given that the patients we engaged were a well rounded representative group of women seen at the clinic, the Applicant can engage and consult with those patients during implementation of to the project. We propose they be contacted 3 6 months after the relocation to speak to the impact of the project and be consulted on any potential improvements. We propose interviews, so the Applicant can get nuanced information and a patient survey across the clinic’s patients at the same time interval to capture broader perspectives about the relocation. A critical finding from the Independent Entity’s community engagement work was the power of community relationships as a channel of communication within the population the clinic serves. Several stakeholders shared how information about the clinic is shared within their community to other women, including newly arrived immigrants. This should be harnessed as a naturally occurring channel for communications about the clinic relocation and to get feedback on its impact. This could include interviews with people in the community who are identified by patients as trusted information sources. We recommend engaging them to inform the communication plan and its implementation as well as 3 6 months after the relocation to speak to the impact of the project and to be consulted for any potential improvements. 19July 2024 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? The relocation of the Women’s Wellness Clinic addresses systemic barriers to equitable access to services by providing an option for women to attend to their own health and the health of their children under one roof—making it more convenient and easier to navigate to healthcare services, especially for newly arrived immigrants and non English speakers. STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes data of all services and patients, including indicators such as race, ethnic background, gender/gender identity, age group, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. The Applicant plan to leverage this dashboard and data, as it does throughout its various projects, to reveal and address inequities and disparities. Additionally, Women’s Wellness outcomes are monitored through an existing dashboard fed by data derived from the Applicant’s Electronic Health Record, Epic. The dashboard provides a holistic view of health and healthcare services for patients across various service lines. Both clinic specific leadership and service line leadership at the organizational level review these dashboards to identify trends, including related to health disparities; summarize outcomes for hospital quality improvement committees; and create standardized processes for responding to necessary improvements. 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant might consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the State, the Applicant can re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and the 20July 2024State are measuring and monitoring outcomes. As stated, the Applicant may also consider continuously engaging with patients engaged in this process and community members to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. This will help ensure the success of this project and inform future projects of a similar nature. Some examples of measures that can be monitored to ensure continued equity amongst patients are vaginal delivery/C section rates. The Applicant can follow patients who are seen in the Women’s Wellness Clinic and subsequently give birth at the hospital and then stratify results by race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status (i.e., payor group), and other demographics to evaluate if there are adverse impacts on patients from medically underserved groups. The Applicant conducts quality reviews of these data across the enterprise on a quarterly basis, particularly for maternity care, as this data is used for transparent hospital quality reports by US News and World Report. US News and World Report quality measures include C section rates in lower risk pregnancies, newborn complication rates, exclusive breast milk feeding rates, early elective delivery rates, birthing friendly practices, and transparency on racial/ethnic disparities, among other measures. (Source: https://www.usnews.com/info/blogs/press room/articles/2023 12 05/u s news world report announces the 2024 best hospitals for maternity care#:~:text=The%20U.S.%20News%20Best%20Hospitals,and%20transparency%20on%20racial%2Fethnic) Additionally, the applicant is undergoing a new process of prescribing iron regiments with hematology referrals to patients within the clinic, as rates of anemia among pregnant women of color occur at a higher rate than white pregnant women. Through this intervention, the Women’s Wellness Clinic aims to optimize hemoglobin levels of at risk patients prior to newborn delivery for increased health outcomes for both the newborn and the mother. We encourage the Applicant to continue monitoring this as part of their efforts to ensure health equity among all clinic patients. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max) SECTION BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY THE APPLICANT SECTION C. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN Acknowledgment by the Applicant that the Health Equity Impact Assessment was reviewed by the facility leadership before submission to the Department. This section is to be completed by the Applicant, not the Independent Entity. I. Acknowledgement I, ________________, attest that I have reviewed the Health Equity Impact Assessment for the __________________ that has been prepared by the Independent Entity, Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC. ______________________________________ Name ______________________________________ Title ______________________________________ Signature ___________________ Date II. Mitigation Plan If the project is approved, how has or will the Applicant mitigate any potential negative impacts to medically underserved groups identified in the Health Equity Impact Assessment? (1000 words max) Please note: this narrative must be made available to the public and posted conspicuously on the Applicant’s website until a decision on the application has been made. Joseph J. LhotaHempstead Women's WellnessJoseph J. LhotaSep 25, 2024Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Staff, ChiefFinancial Officer 22July 2024Through the implementation of this project, NYULH aims to enhance the patient experience and ensure patients are receiving the superior care that they deserve. While the HEIA highlighted some potential concerns from stakeholders, NYULH would like to reiterate it is very early in the planning process and is able to give all concerns strong consideration. Operations in the new Women’s Wellness location will mimic and build upon the current operations of the Women’s Wellness location to promote a straightforward onboarding process. The parking area in the new location is a free parking deck and accommodates more vehicles than the current location’s surface lot. NYULH will ensure adequate signage promotion in English and Spanish to notify patients to park in the new location’s parking deck instead of paid street parking to avoid additional costs during their visit.


“健康信息交换”(HEALTH INFORMATION EXCHANGE)，“关怀无处不在”(CARE EVERYWHERE) 和 HEALTHIX 知情同意书 HEALTH INFORMATION EXCHANGE, CARE EVERYWHERE AND HEALTHIX CONSENT FORM 在本同意书中，您可以选择是否允许纽约大学兰贡健康系统 (NYU Langone Health System) 健康信息交换（Health Information Exchange（以下称“HIE”））网站 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ 上列明的医疗服务机构（以下称“HIE 参与方”）以及非纽约大学兰贡医疗服务机构（以下称“关怀无处不在机构”）在基于当前治疗目的可能需要获得您的医疗记录时，通过 HIE 运营的计算机网络获取您的医疗记录。为方便“关怀无处不在机构”知悉可通过 HIE 获取信息，您必须向其告知您曾经/现在是“HIE 参与方”的患者，如有需要，他们可以获取您的信息。这样可以帮助收集您在不同地方获得的卫生保健医疗记录，并提供给当前为您治疗的医疗服务机构。 In this Consent Form, you can choose whether to allow the health care providers listed on the NYU Langone Health System Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) website http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ (“HIE Participants”) and non NYU Langone health providers who may request access to your medical records for purposes of current treatment (“Care Everywhere Providers”) to obtain access to your medical records through a computer network operated by the HIE. In order for a Care Everywhere Provider to know that information may be available through the HIE, you must tell them that you were/are a patient of an HIE Participant and that such information may be available upon request. This can help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get health care, and make them available to the providers treating you. 您还可以通过本知情同意书决定是否允许纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构的员工、代理或医务人员通过 Healthix （由纽约州承认的健康信息交换或地区健康信息组织，非营利性组织）查看并获取您的电子医疗记录 。这样可以帮助收集您在不同地方获得的卫生保健医疗记录，并供当前为您治疗的医疗服务机构进行电子查阅。本同意书也表示允许任何您作为患者或成员参与的纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构项目从您的其他医疗服务机构处获取经授权通过 Healthix 披露的信息记录。请随时访问 Healthix 网站 http://www.healthix.org 或拨打 877 695 4749 获取当前 Healthix 信息资源完整列表。如有需求，您的医疗机构将会为您从该网站打印列表。 You may also use this Consent Form to decide whether or not to allow employees, agents or members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to see and obtain access to your electronic health records through Healthix, which is a Health Information Exchange, or Regional Health Information Organization, a not for profit organization recognized by the state of New York. This can also help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get healthcare, and make them available electronically to the providers treating you. This consent also gives your permission for any NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities program in which you are a patient or member, to access your records from your other healthcare providers authorized to disclose information through Healthix. A complete list of current Healthix Information Sources is available from Healthix and can be obtained at any time by checking the Healthix website at http://www.healthix.org or by calling 877 695 4749. Upon request, your provider will print this list for you from this website. 您的选择将不会对您获得医疗服务或医疗保险造成影响。无论您选择同意还是拒绝，都不得作为拒绝医疗服务的依据。 YOUR CHOICE WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO GET MEDICAL CARE OR HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE. YOUR CHOICE TO GIVE OR TO DENY CONSENT MAY NOT BE THE BASIS FOR DENIAL OF HEALTH SERVICES. HIE 和 Healthix 通过电子方式安全地分享人们的健康信息，以提高医疗服务的质量。这种分享称为电子健康或健康信息技术。想了解更多关于纽约州电子健康的内容，请阅读《更多信息，更多关怀》(Better Information Means Better Care) 宣传册。您可以向您的医疗服务机构索要或登录网站 www.ehealth4ny.org 查看。 The HIE and Healthix share information about people’s health electronically and securely to improve the quality of health care services. This kind of sharing is called ehealth or health information technology. To learn more about ehealth in New York State, read the brochure, “Better Information Means Better Care”. You can ask your health care provider for it, or go to the website www.ehealth4ny.org. 在做出决定之前，请您仔细阅读《情况说明书》上的信息。您是否同意。您可以现在或在将来填写这张表格。您有以下选择： PLEASE CAREFULLY READ THE INFORMATION ON THE FACT SHEET BEFORE MAKING YOUR DECISION. Your Consent Choices. You can fill out this form now or in the future. You have the following choices: 请勾选以下方框之一： Please check one box  below: 1. 本人同意 HIE 网站上所列的所有“HIE 参与方”以及“关怀无处不在机构”通过 HIE 访问本人的全部电子健康信息且本人同意纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构的所有员工、代理或医务人员因《情况说明书》中所述的任何经许可的目的（包括为本人提供含急诊在内的任何医疗服务），通过 HEALTHIX 获取本人的全部电子健康信息。 1. I GIVE CONSENT to ALL of the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access ALL of my electronic health information through the HIE and I GIVE CONSENT to ALL employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access ALL of my electronic health information through HEALTHIX in connection with any of the permitted purposes described in the fact sheet, including providing me any health care services, including emergency care. 2. 本人拒绝 HIE 网站上所列的“HIE 参与方”以及“关怀无处不在机构”通过 HIE 访问本人的电子健康信息且本人拒绝纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构的员工、代理和医务人员因任何目的（即使是急诊）通过 HEALTHIX 获取本人的电子健康信息。 2. I DENY CONSENT to the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access my electronic health information through the HIE and I DENY CONSENT to employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access my electronic health information through HEALTHIX for any purpose, even in a medical emergency. 注意：除非您勾选“本人拒绝”的方框，否则纽约州法律在紧急情况下允许治疗人员获得您的医疗记录，包括通过 HIE 和 HEALTHIX 提供的记录。如果您未进行选择，除纽约州法律允许的紧急情况外，这些记录将不会被共享。 NOTE: UNLESS YOU CHECK THE “I DENY CONSENT” BOX, New York State law allows the people treating you in an emergency to get access to your medical records, including records that are available through the HIE and HEALTHIX. IF YOU DON'T MAKE A CHOICE, the records will not be shared except in an emergency as allowed by New York State Law. _______________________________________ ______________________________ ___________ 患者正楷姓名 患者出生日期 日期 Print Name of Patient Patient’s Date of Birth Date _______________________________________ ___________________________________________ 患者或患者法定代表人签名 法定代表人的正楷姓名及关系（如适用） Signature of Patient or Patient’s Legal Representative Print Name of Legal Representative and Relationship (if applicable) 纽约大学兰贡 HIE、“关怀无处不在”和 Healthix 情况说明书 关于通过 HIE、“关怀无处不在”和 Healthix 进行患者信息交换和知情同意过程的详情： 1. 您的信息将如何被使用。您的电子健康信息将由“HIE 参与方”和“关怀无处不在机构”仅用于：  为您提供医疗及相关服务。  查看您是否有医疗保险及其保险范围。  评估并提高所有患者的医疗质量。 除非州和联邦法律另行许可，且如果经过 Healthix 许可，否则纽约大学兰贡健康医疗保险计划应仅为以下用途披露、访问和使用您的电子健康信息：  提供健康管理活动。这包括协助您获得适当的医疗服务、改善您的医疗健康服务质量、协调提供给您的多种医疗服务或支持您遵循医疗服务计划。  提供质量改进活动。这包括评估和改进提供给您和纽约大学兰贡健康的所有患者和成员的医疗服务质量。 注意：您在本同意知情书中所做的选择不允许健康保险公司以决定是否提供给您健康保险或支付您的账单为目的而获取您的信息。您可以在健康保险公司必须使用的单独的知情同意书中进行选择。 2. 包含您的哪些类型的信息。如果您同意，“HIE 参与方”以及“关怀无处不在机构”可以通过 HIE 访问您的全部电子健康信息，并且纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构的所有员工、代理或医务人员可以通过 Healthix 获取您的全部电子健康信息 。这包括在本同意知情书日期之前和之后创建的信息。您的健康记录可能包括您所患疾病或受伤的病史（如糖尿病或骨折）、检查结果（如 X 射线或血液检查）以及您服用的药物清单。这些信息可能与敏感性健康状况有关，包括但不限于：  酒精或药物使用问题，包括但不限于诊断、用药、诊断信息、病史和摘要、临床记录和出院总结  生育控制与堕胎（计划生育）  精神健康治疗  过敏症  遗传（遗传性）疾病或检查  性传播疾病  HIV/AIDS 3. 您的健康信息来自哪里。您的信息来自为您提供医疗服务或健康保险的机构（以下称“信息资源”）。这可能包括医院、内科医生、药房、临床实验室、健康保险公司、Medicaid 计划以及其他以电子方式交换健康信息的电子健康组织。请从纽约大学兰贡健康系统或您的“HIE 参与方”健康医疗机构获取当前 HIE 信息资源完整列表。您可以随时查看 HIE 网站 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ 获取最新的信息资源列表。您可以写信至以下地址联系纽约大学兰贡健康隐私官 (NYU Langone Health Privacy Officer)：NYU Langone Health, Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10016 或拨打 212 404 4079 。请随时访问 Healthix 网站 http://www.healthix.org 或拨打 877 695 4749 获取当前 Healthix 信息资源完整列表。 4. 如果您选择同意，谁可以访问您的信息。本知情同意书中的“纽约大学兰贡健康系统及其附属机构”包括纽约大学兰贡医院 (NYU Langone Hospitals)、纽约大学医学院 (NYU School of Medicine)、纽约大学家庭健康中心 (the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone)、纽约大学温斯洛普医院 (NYU Winthrop Hospital) 和纽约大学温斯洛普 医疗分支机构 (NYU Winthrop Medical Affiliates)。仅以下机构的人员可以获取您的信息：服务于经认可的“HIE 参与方”、“Healthix 参与方”或任何与您的医疗服务相关的“关怀无处不在机构”的医生和其他医疗服务机构；经认可的“HIE 参与方”或“关怀无处不在机构”的医生的代理或待命健康医疗机构；参与质量改善或医疗管理活动的指定员工；以及经认可的“HIE 参与方”或“关怀无处不在机构”的工作人员，提供本知情同意书第一条规定所允许的活动。 5. 对不正当访问或使用您的信息的处罚。不正当访问或使用您的电子健康信息的行为会受到相应的处罚。无论何时，如果您怀疑不应该查看或访问您信息的人做出了如此行为，请致电任何您已授权访问您记录的“HIE 参与方”或“关怀无处不在机构”；请访问 HIE 网站：http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ 或者致电纽约州卫生署 877 690 2211。在任何时候，如果您怀疑不应该通过 Healthix 查看或访问您信息的人做出了如此行为，请致电 Healthix：877 695 4749；或者访问 Healthix 的网站：http://www/healthix.org；或者致电纽约州卫生署 877 690 2211。 6. 信息的再次披露。在州和联邦法律和法规允许的范围内，任何有关您的电子健康信息，都可以由“HIE 参与方”或“关怀无处不在机构”再次披露给其他机构。这也适用于您以书面形式存在的健康信息。如上文第 2 条所述，如果您选择同意，您所有的电子健康信息，包括敏感性健康信息，都将通过 HIE 和 Healthix 提供。一些州和联邦法律为一些敏感性健康信息提供了特殊的保护，包括关于：(i) 特定机构对您的健康状况的评估、治疗或检查；(ii) HIV/AIDS；(iii) 精神疾病；(iv)智力缺陷和发展性障碍；(v) 药物滥用；以及 (vi) 易患病基因检测。获得这些敏感性健康信息的人员必须时刻遵守特殊要求。HIE、Healthix 和个人，包括“关怀无处不在机构”，要通过这些健康信息交流访问这些信息时必须符合这些要求。 7. 有效期。本知情同意书将一直有效，直到您撤消同意，或者 HIE 停止运作，或者直到您去世后 50 年，以较晚的日期为准。 8. 撤销同意。您可以随时签署一份新的同意知情书，并选择本人拒绝，以撤销您的同意。您可以在 HIE 网站 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ 上找到这些表格。填写完成后，请传真至 917 829 2096 或提交给您的医疗服务机构。 注意：在您的同意生效期间，通过 HIE 和/或 Healthix 访问您的健康信息的组织，包括“关怀无处不在机构”，可以复制或在他们自己的医疗记录中包含您的信息。即使您后来决定撤消同意，他们也不需要归还或者从他们的记录中删除这些信息。 9. 拒绝勾选方框（进行选择）。除非您勾选“本人拒绝”的方框，否则纽约州法律在紧急情况下允许治疗人员获得您的医疗记录，包括通过 HIE 提供的记录。如果您未进行选择，除纽约州法律允许的紧急情况外，这些记录将不会被共享。 10. 同意书副本署名后，您有权获得一份本知情同意书的副本。 11. 拒绝风险须知。如果您拒绝“HIE 参与方”以“关怀无处不在机构”通过 HIE 和 Healthix 访问您的信息，那么您的医疗服务机构可能无法及时获取您的历史临床医疗信息。


FÒM POU BAY KONSANTMAN POU ECHANJ ENFÒMASYON SOU SANTE ANT, CARE EVERYWHERE AK HEALTHIX HEALTH INFORMATION EXCHANGE, CARE EVERYWHERE AND HEALTHIX CONSENT FORM Nan Fòm sa a pou bay Konsantman an, ou kapab chwazi si pou kite pwofesyonèl swen sante ki endike sou sitwèb NYU Langone Health System Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ (“Patnè HIE ”) ak pwofesyonèl swen sante ki pa nan NYULangone ki ka mande pou jwenn dosye medikal ou yo pou objektif tretman nan moman an (“Care Everywhere Providers”) pou jwenn dosye medikal ou yo nan yon rezo enfòmatik HIE opere. Pou yon Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere kapab konnen enfòmasyon yo ka disponib nan HIE, ou dwe fè li konnen ou te/se yon pasyan yon Patnè HIE epi enfòmasyon yo ka disponib sou demann. Sa kapab ede rasanble dosye medikal ou genyen nan diferan kote ou resevwa swen sante, epitou sa kapab ede yo mete yo disponib pou pwofesyonèl swen sante k ap trete ou. In this Consent Form, you can choose whether to allow the health care providers listed on the NYU Langone Health System Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) website http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ (“HIE Participants”) and non NYU Langone health providers who may request access to your medical records for purposes of current treatment (“Care Everywhere Providers”) to obtain access to your medical records through a computer network operated by the HIE. In order for a Care Everywhere Provider to know that information may be available through the HIE, you must tell them that you were/are a patient of an HIE Participant and that such information may be available upon request. This can help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get health care, and make them available to the providers treating you. Ou ka itilize Fòm sa a pou bay Konsantman an, dosye elektwonik sou sante ou ajan, oswa manm ekip medikal s NYU Langone Health System ak enstitisyon afilye yo pou yo wè ak jwenn dosye elektwonik sou sante ou nan Healthix, ki se yon Echanj Enfòmasyon sou Sante Exchange, oswa òganizasyon Rejyonal Enfòmasyon sou Sante, yon òganizasyon ki pa komèsyal ki gen rekonesans Eta N ew York. Sa kapab ede yo tou rasanble dosye medikal ou genyen nan anpil kote diferan kote ou resevwa swen sante, epitou sa kapab ede yo mete yo disponib sou fòm elektwonik pou pwofesyonèl swen sante k ap trete ou. Konsantman sa a bay pèmisyon ou tou pou nenpòt pwogram NYU Langone ak enstitisyon afilye kote ou se yon pasyan oswa manm, pou yo jwenn dosye ou yo nan klinik lòt pwofesyonèl swen sante ki otorize pou divilge enfòmasyon yo nan Healthix. Yon lis Sous Enfòmasyon Healthix ki konplè ak ajou disponib nan Healthix epi ou kapab jwenn yo nenpòt lè depi ou tcheke sitwèb Healthix nan http://www.healthix.org oswa depi ou rele nimewo 877 695 4749. Si ou fè demann lan, pwofesyonèl swen sante ou ap enprime lis sa a pou ou nan sitwèb sa a. You may also use this Consent Form to decide whether or not to allow employees, agents or members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to see and obtain access to your electronic health records through Healthix, which is a Health Information Exchange, or Regional Health Information Organization, a not for profit organization recognized by the state of New York. This can also help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get healthcare, and make them available electronically to the providers treating you. This consent also gives your permission for any NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities program in which you are a patient or member, to access your records from your other healthcare providers authorized to disclose information through Healthix. A complete list of current Healthix Information Sources is available from Healthix and can be obtained at any time by checking the Healthix website at http://www.healthix.org or by calling 877 695 4749. Upon request, your provider will print this list for you from this website. CHWA OU FÈ A P AP AFEKTE POSIBLITE OU POU JWENN SWEN MEDIKAL OSWA PWOTEKSYON ASIRANS SANTE. CHWA OU FÈ POU BAY OSWA POU REFIZE BAY KONSANTMAN OU KA PA YON REZON POU JWENN REFI POU SÈVIS SANTE A. YOUR CHOICE WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO GET MEDICAL CARE OR HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE. YOUR CHOICE TO GIVE OR TO DENY CONSENT MAY NOT BE THE BASIS FOR DENIAL OF HEALTH SERVICES. HIE ak Healthix divilge enfòmasyon sou sante moun sou fòm elektwonik ak yon fason pwoteje pou amelyore kalite sèvis swen sante a. Kalite divilgasyon sa a rele ehealth oswa teknoloji enfòmasyon sou sante. Pou jwenn plis enfòmasyon sou ehealth nan Eta New York, li tiliv ki rele, “Better Information Means Better Care” (Pi Bon Enfòmasyon Vle di Pi Bon Swen Sante). Ou kapab mande pwofesyonèl swen sante ou sa, oswa ou kapab ale sou sitwèbwww.ehealth4ny.org. The HIE and Healthix share information about people’s health electronically and securely to improve the quality of health care services. This kind of sharing is called ehealth or health information technology. To learn more about ehealth in New York State, read the brochure, “Better Information Means Better Care”. You can ask your health care provider for it, or go to the website www.ehealth4ny.org. TANPRI LI ENFÒMASYON KI SOU FÈY ENFÒMASYON AN AVÈK ANPIL ATANSYON ANVAN OU PRAN DESIZYON OU. Chwa ou yo pou Konsantman an. Ou kapab ranpli fòm sa a kounye a oswa pidevan. Ou gen chwa ki endike anba la yo: PLEASE CAREFULLY READ THE INFORMATION ON THE FACT SHEET BEFORE MAKING YOUR DECISION. Your Consent Choices. You can fill out this form now or in the future. You have the following choices: Tanpri fè yon ti kwa nan yon kaz. ki anba la: Please check one box  below: 1. MWEN BAY KONSANTMAN pou TOUT Patnè HIE ki endike sou sitwèb HIE ak Care Everywhere Providers jwenn TOUT enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante mwen nan HIE epitou MWEN BAY KONSANTMAN pou TOUT anplwaye, ajan ak manm ekip medikal NYU Langone Health System ak enstitisyon afilye yo jwenn TOUT enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante mwen nan HEALTHIX anrapò avèk nenpòt objektif yo aksepte ki dekri nan fèy enfòmasyon an, tankou pou yo ban mwen nenpòt sèvis swen sante, ak swen sante annijans tou. 1. I GIVE CONSENT to ALL of the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access ALL of my electronic health information through the HIE and I GIVE CONSENT to ALL employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access ALL of my electronic health information through HEALTHIX in connection with any of the permitted purposes described in the fact sheet, including providing me any health care services, including emergency care. 2. MWEN PA BAY KONSANTMAN pou Patnè HIE lki endike sou sitwèb HIE ak Care Everywhere Providers pou yo jwenn enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante mwen nan HIE epi MWEN PA BAY KONSANTMAN pou anplwaye, ajan ak manm ekip medikal NYU Langone Health System ak enstitisyon afilye yo jwen enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante mwen nan HEALTHIX pou nenpòt rezon, menm nan yon ijans medikal. 2. I DENY CONSENT to the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access my electronic health information through the HIE and I DENY CONSENT to employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access my electronic health information through HEALTHIX for any purpose, even in a medical emergency. NÒT: SOF SI OU FÈ YON TI KWA NAN KAZ “MWEN PA BAY KONSANTMAN” lwa Eta New York, ap pèmèt moun k ap trete ou yo nan yon ijans jwenn dosye medikal ou yo, tankou dosye ki disponib nan HIE ak HEALTHIX. SI OU PA FÈ YON CHWA, nou p ap divilge dosye yo sof nan yon ijans jan Lwa Eta New York bay otorizasyon pou sa. NOTE: UNLESS YOU CHECK THE “I DENY CONSENT” BOX, New York State law allows the people treating you in an emergency to get access to your medical records, including records that are available through the HIE and HEALTHIX. IF YOU DON'T MAKE A CHOICE, the records will not be shared except in an emergency as allowed by New York State Law. Ekri Non Pasyan an avèk Lèt Detache Print Name of Patient Dat Nesans Pasyan an Patient’s Date of Birth Dat Date Siyati Pasyan an oswa Reprezantan Legal Pasyan an Patient’s Legal Representative Signature of Patient or Patient’s Legal Representative Ekri Non Reprezantan Legal Pasyan an avèk Lèt Detache akb sa li ye pou Pasyan an(isit li posib) Print Name of Legal Representative and Relationship (if applicable) NYU Langone HIE, Care Everywhere, ak Healthix Fèy Enfòmasyon Detay sou enfòmasyon sou pasyan yo bay nan HIE, Care Everywhere ak Healthix ak pwosesis pou bay konsantman an: 1. Fason Nou Pral Itilize Enfòmasyon Ou Yo. Patnè HIE yo ak Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere pral itilize enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou sèlman pou:  Yo ba ou tretman medikal ak sèvis ki asosye yo.  Tcheke si ou gen asirans sante ak si li ba ou pwoteksyon.  Evalye epi amelyore kalite swen medikal yo bay pou tout pasyan yo. Sof si lwa Leta a ak lwa federal bay lòt kalite pèmisyon, epi si Healthix bay pèmisyon tou, plan asirans swen sante yo dwe divilge enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou, jwenn yo, epi itilize yo sèlman pou:  Bay Aktivite Kontwòl Swen Sante. Kèk nan aktivite sa yo se ede ou jwenn swen medikal kòmsadwa, amelyore kalite sèvis swen sante yo ba ou, kowòdone distribisyon plizyè kalite sèvis swen sante yo ba ou, oswa sipòte ou nan swiv yon plan swen medikal.  Bay Aktivite pou Amelyorasyon Kalite Swen Sante a. Kèk nan aktivite sa yo se evalye epi amelyore kalite swen medikal yo ba ou ak tout pasyan ak manm yo. NÒT: Chwa ou fè nan Fòm Konsantman sa a P AP pèmèt konpayi asirans sante yo jwenn enfòmasyon ou pou yo deside si pou yo ba ou asirans sante oswa si pou yo peye bòdwo ou yo. Ou kapab fè chwa sa a nan yon fòm Konsantman apa konpayi asirans sante yo dwe itilize. 2. Ki Kalite Enfòmasyon Sou Ou ki Endike. Si ou bay konsantman ou, Patnè HIE yo ak Pwofesyonèl swen sante Care Everywhere ka jwenn TOUT enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou ki disponib nan HIE, epi tout anplwaye, ajan, ak manm ekip medikal NYU Hospitals Center ka jwenn TOUT enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou ki disponib nan Healthix. Sa gen ladan enfòmasyon yo kreye anvan ak apre dat ki nan Fòm Konsantman sa a. Dosye sante ou ka gen ladan yon istwa maladi oswa chòk ou te genyen (tankou dyabèt oswa yon zo kase), rezilta tès (tankou radyografi oswa tès san), ak lis medikaman ou te pran yo. Enfòmasyon sa yo ka konsène pwoblèm sante sansib, tankou, men pa sèlman:  Pwoblèm itilizasyon alkòl ak dwòg  Metòd pou pa ansent ak avòtman (planin familyal)  Tretman sante mantal  Alèji  Maladi jenetik (ou eritye) oswa tès jenetik  Maladi moun pran nan fè bagay  VIH/SIDA 3. Kote Enfòmasyon sou Sante Ou Soti. Enfòmasyon sou sante ou soti nan kote ki te ba ou swen medikal oswa asirans sante (“Sous Enfòmasyon”). Sous sa yo se ka lopital, doktè, famasi, laboratwa klinik, konpayi asirans sante, pwogram Medicaid, ak lòt òganizasyon ehealth ki fè echanj enfòmasyon sou sante sou fòm elektwonik. Yon lis konplè dènye Sous Enfòmasyon HIE disponib nan NYU Langone Health System oswa nan klinik pwofesyonèl swen sante Patnè HIE ou, jan sa posib. Ou kapab jwenn yon dènye lis Sous Enfòmasyon nenpòt lè depi ou ale sou sitwèb HIE nan http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/. Ou kapab kontakte Fonksyonè ki Responsab Konfidansyalite Enfòmasyon sou Sante nan NYU Langone depi ou voye yon lèt nan adrès: NYU Langone Health, Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3yèm Etaj, New York, NY 10016 oswa depi ou rele nimewo 212 404 4079. Yon lis konplè dènye sous Enfòmasyon Healthix disponib nan Healthix, epi ou kapab jwenn li nenpòt lè depi ou ale sou sitwèb Healthix nan http://www.healthix.org oswa depi ou rele Healthix nan nimewo 877 695 4749. 4. Moun Ki Ka Jwenn Enfòmasyon Sou Ou, Si Ou Bay Konsantman Ou. “NYU Langone Health System ak filyal li yo” jan nou itilize li nan fòm konsantman sa a gen ladan NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU School of Medicine, Family Health Centers ki nan NYU Langone, NYU Winthrop Hospital ak Afilye Medikal NYU Winthrop. Se sèlman moun sa yo ki nan sant medikal sa yo ki ka jwenn enfòmasyon sou ou: doktè ak lòt pwofesyonèl swen sante ki sèvi nan ekip medikal yon Patnè HIE ki apwouve oswa Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere ki patisipe nan swen medikal ou; pwofesyonèl swen sante ranplase oswa ki desèvis pou yon Patnè HIE apwouve oswa doktè Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere; ekip yo chwazi ki patisipe nan amelyorasyon kalite nan aktivite jesyon swen sante; ak manm ekip yon Patnè HIE apwouve oswa Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere ki fè aktivite dapre pèmisyon Fòm Konsantman sa a jan sa dekri anwo a nan paragraf en. 5. Sanksyon pou Aksè Enkòrèk nan Enfòmasyon Ou yo oswa pou Move Itilizasyon yo. Gen sanksyon pou aksè ki pa apwopriye nan enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante oswa pou itilizasyon yo. Si nenpòt lè ou sispèk yon moun ki pa ta dwe ni wè ni jwenn enfòmasyon sou ou fè sa, rele youn nan Patnè HIE yo oswa Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere ou te apwouve pou jwenn dosye ou yo; ale sou sitwèb HIE: http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ oswa rele Depatman Sante NYS nan nimewo. 877 690 2211. Si nenpòt kilè ou sispèk yon moun pa ta dwe ni wè ni jwenn enfòmasyon sou ou ta fè sa nan Healthix, rele Healthix nan nimewo: 877 695 4749; oswa ale sou sitwèb Healthix: http://www/healthix.org; oswa rele Depatman Sante nan nimewo 877 690 2211. 6. Re Divilgasyon Enfòmasyon yo. Yon Patnè HIE oswa yon Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere ka re divilge nenpòt enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou ba lòt moun sèlman nan limit lwa ak règleman leta ak federal bay pèmisyon pou sa fèt. Sa vrè tou pou enfòmasyon sou sante sou ou ki egziste sou yon fòm nan papye. Jan sa endike nan #2 anwo a, si ou bay konsantman ou, TOUT enfòmasyon elektwonik sou sante ou, ansanm ak enfòmasyon sansib sou sante ou ap disponib nan HIE ak Healthix. Kèk lwa leta ak lwa federal bay pwoteksyon espesyal pou kèk kalite enfòmasyon sansib sou sante, tankou enfòmasyon ki asosye avèk: (i) evalyasyon ou, tretman ou oswa egzaminasyon yon pwoblèm sante sèten pwofesyonèl swen sante fè pou ou; (ii) VIH/SIDA; (iii) maladi mantal; (iv) reta mantal ak andikap devlòpmantal; (v) abi alkòl/dwòg, epi (vi) tès jenetik yo konnen rezilta yo davans. Yo dwe swiv kondisyon espesyal yo kèlkeswa lè moun yo resevwa kalite enfòmasyon sansib sa yo sou sante ou. HIE, Healthix ak moun yo, tankou Pwofesyonèl Swen Sante Care Everywhere, ki jwenn enfòmasyon sa yo avèk echanj enfòmasyon sa yo sou sante dwe konfòme yo avèk egzijans sa yo. 7. Peryòd Konsantman an Anvigè. Fòm Konsantman sa a ap rete anvigè jouk nan jou ou anile konsantman ou oswa jouk lè HIE sispann operasyon, oswa jouk 50 tan apre ou mouri, kèlkeswa sa ki fèt apre a. 8. Fason pou Anile Konsantman Ou. Ou kapab anile konsantman ou nenpòt lè depi ou siyen yon Nouvo Fòm pou Bay Konsantman epi ou chwazi MWEN PA BAY KONSANTMAN. Ou kapab jwenn fòm sa yo sou sitwèb HIE nan http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/. Lè ou fini, tanpri fakse li nan nimewo 917 829 2096 oswa soumèt li ba pwofesyonèl swen sante ou. Nòt: Òganizasyon yo, tankou Care Everywhere Providers Everywhere, ki jwenn enfòmasyon sou sante ou avèk HIE ak/oswa Healthix pandan konsantman ou anvigè ka fè kopi oswa ajoute enfòmasyon ou yo nan dosye medikal pa yo. Menmsi ou deside anile konsantman ou pita, yo pa gen obligasyon pou retounen li oswa pou retire li nan dosye yo. 9. Si Ou Refize Fè yon ti kwa nan yon Kaz (fè yon chwa) Sof si ou fè yon ti kwa nan kaz “MWEN PA BAY KONSANTMAN” x, lwa Eta New York ap pèmèt moun k ap trete ou nan yon ijans jwenn dosye medikal ou yo, tankou dosye ki disponib nan HIE. Si ou pa fè yon chwa, nou p ap divilge dosye yo sof nan yon ijans, jan Lwa Eta New York bay pèmisyon pou sa. 10. Kopi Fòm nan. Ou gen dwa pou resevwa yon kopi Fòm Konsantman sa a apre ou siyen li. 11. Risk ki Genyen Si Ou Pa Bay Konsantman Ou. Si ou refize bay konsantman ou pou Patnè HIE ak Care Everywhere Providers jwenn enfòmasyon ou yo nan HIE ak Healthix, pwofesyonèl swen sante ou yo pa kapab jwenn enfòmasyon enpòtan sou sante ou, yo te jwenn pandan yon rankont anvan, nan yon mannyè ki apwopriye.


건강 정보 교환, CARE EVERYWHERE 및 HEALTHIX 동의서 양식 HEALTH INFORMATION EXCHANGE, CARE EVERYWHERE AND HEALTHIX CONSENT FORM 이 동의서 양식을 통해 NYU Langone Health System 건강 정보 교환(NYU Langone Health System Health Information Exchange)(“HIE”) 웹 사이트 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/의 목록에 명시된 의료 서비스 제공자(“HIE 참여자”)와 현재 치료를 목적으로 귀하의 의무 기록에 대한 열람을 요청할 수 있는 NYU Langone 이외의 의료 제공자(“Care Everywhere 제공자”)가 HIE가 운영하는 컴퓨터 네트워크를 통해 귀하의 의무 기록을 열람하는 것에 대한 허용 여부를 선택할 수 있습니다. Care Everywhere 제공자가 HIE를 통해 정보를 열람할 수 있다는 것을 알기 위해서는 귀하가 HIE 참여자의 환자였거나 환자이며 요청에 따라 해당 정보가 제공될 수 있음을 알려야 합니다. 이는 귀하가 다른 장소에서 치료를 받더라도 의무 기록을 한 곳에 모아 귀하의 치료를 담당하는 의료 제공자에게 제공될 수 있도록 합니다. In this Consent Form, you can choose whether to allow the health care providers listed on the NYU Langone Health System Health Information Exchange (“HIE”) website http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/ (“HIE Participants”) and non NYU Langone health providers who may request access to your medical records for purposes of current treatment (“Care Everywhere Providers”) to obtain access to your medical records through a computer network operated by the HIE. In order for a Care Everywhere Provider to know that information may be available through the HIE, you must tell them that you were/are a patient of an HIE Participant and that such information may be available upon request. This can help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get health care, and make them available to the providers treating you. 이 동의서를 통해 NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관의 직원, 대리인, 의료진이 정보 교환 매체 또는 뉴욕 주에서 인정하는 비영리 단체인 지역 의료 정보 기관(Regional Health Information Organization)이 Healthix를 통해 귀하의 전자 의무 기록을 열람하고 받아볼 수 있도록 허용하거나 거부할 수 있습니다. 이는 귀하가 다른 장소에서 의료 서비스를 받은 의무 기록을 수집하여 귀하의 치료를 담당하는 의료 제공자에게 전자적으로 이용할 수 있도록 합니다. 이 동의서는 귀하가 환자이거나 회원인 NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관 프로그램이 귀하의 정보를 Healthix를 통해 공개하도록 허가된 기타 의료 서비스 제공자를 통해 귀하의 정보를 열람할 수 있도록 허용합니다. Healthix 정보 출처의 전체 목록은 Healthix에서 열람할 수 있으며, Healthix 웹 사이트 http://www.healthix.org 또는 전화번호 877 695 4749로 전화하여 언제든지 받아볼 수 있습니다. 요청하는 경우, 귀하의 의료 제공자는 이 웹 사이트에서 이 목록을 인쇄해 드립니다. You may also use this Consent Form to decide whether or not to allow employees, agents or members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to see and obtain access to your electronic health records through Healthix, which is a Health Information Exchange, or Regional Health Information Organization, a not for profit organization recognized by the state of New York. This can also help collect the medical records you have in different places where you get healthcare, and make them available electronically to the providers treating you. This consent also gives your permission for any NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities program in which you are a patient or member, to access your records from your other healthcare providers authorized to disclose information through Healthix. A complete list of current Healthix Information Sources is available from Healthix and can be obtained at any time by checking the Healthix website at http://www.healthix.org or by calling 877 695 4749. Upon request, your provider will print this list for you from this website. 귀하의 선택은 치료 또는 의료 보험 보장을 받을 수 있는 귀하의 능력에 영향을 미치지 않습니다. 귀하의 동의 여부 또는 거부 선택이 의료 서비스 거부의 근거가 될 수 없습니다. YOUR CHOICE WILL NOT AFFECT YOUR ABILITY TO GET MEDICAL CARE OR HEALTH INSURANCE COVERAGE. YOUR CHOICE TO GIVE OR TO DENY CONSENT MAY NOT BE THE BASIS FOR DENIAL OF HEALTH SERVICES. HIE 및 Healthix는 의료 서비스의 품질을 개선시키기 위해 사람들의 의료 정보를 전자적으로 안전하게 공유합니다. 이런 유형의 공유를 ehealth 또는 의료 정보 기술이라고 합니다. 뉴욕 주에 있는 ehealth에 관한 더 자세한 정보는 브로셔 “더 나은 정보는 더 나은 치료(Better Information Means Better Care)”를 참조하십시오. 의료 서비스 제공자에게 요청하거나 웹 사이트 www.ehealth4ny.org를 방문하십시오. The HIE and Healthix share information about people’s health electronically and securely to improve the quality of health care services. This kind of sharing is called ehealth or health information technology. To learn more about ehealth in New York State, read the brochure, “Better Information Means Better Care”. You can ask your health care provider for it, or go to the website www.ehealth4ny.org. 결정을 내리기 전에 정보 안내서의 내용을 주의 깊게 읽으십시오. 귀하의 동의 선택. 이 동의서는 지금 작성하거나 추후에 작성할 수 있습니다. 다음의 선택을 할 수 있습니다. PLEASE CAREFULLY READ THE INFORMATION ON THE FACT SHEET BEFORE MAKING YOUR DECISION. Your Consent Choices. You can fill out this form now or in the future. You have the following choices: 아래 상자 중 하나에 체크하십시오. Please check one box  below: 1. 본인은 HIE 웹 사이트 및 Care Everywhere 제공자 목록에 있는 모든 HIE 참여자에게 HIE를 통해 본인의 모든 전자 의료 정보를 열람하는 데 동의하며, NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관의 모든 직원, 대리인 및 의료진이 응급 치료를 포함한 모든 의료 서비스를 제공하는 것을 비롯하여 정보 안내서에 명시된 허용된 목적을 달성하기 위해 HEALTHIX를 통해 본인의 전자 의료 정보를 열람하는 데 동의합니다. 1. I GIVE CONSENT to ALL of the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access ALL of my electronic health information through the HIE and I GIVE CONSENT to ALL employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access ALL of my electronic health information through HEALTHIX in connection with any of the permitted purposes described in the fact sheet, including providing me any health care services, including emergency care. 2. 본인은 HIE 웹 사이트 및 Care Everywhere 제공자 목록에 있는 HIE 참여자가 HIE를 통해 본인의 전자 의료 정보를 열람하는 데 동의하지 않으며, 의료적 응급 상황일지라도 NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관의 직원, 대리인 및 의료진이 어떤 목적으로든 HEALTHIX를 통해 본인의 전자 의료 정보를 열람하는 데 동의하지 않습니다. 2. I DENY CONSENT to the HIE Participants listed on the HIE website and Care Everywhere Providers to access my electronic health information through the HIE and I DENY CONSENT to employees, agents and members of the medical staffs of NYU Langone Health System and affiliated entities to access my electronic health information through HEALTHIX for any purpose, even in a medical emergency. 참고: “동의하지 않음” 상자에 체크하지 않는 한, 뉴욕 주 법에 따라 응급 상황에 귀하를 치료하는 사람들이 HIE 및 HEALTHIX를 통해 제공되는 기록을 비롯한 귀하의 의무 기록을 열람할 수 있습니다. 선택을 하지 않으면, 뉴욕 주 법에서 허용하는 응급 상황을 제외하고는 기록이 공유되지 않습니다. NOTE: UNLESS YOU CHECK THE “I DENY CONSENT” BOX, New York State law allows the people treating you in an emergency to get access to your medical records, including records that are available through the HIE and HEALTHIX. IF YOU DON'T MAKE A CHOICE, the records will not be shared except in an emergency as allowed by New York State Law. _______________________________________ ______________________________ ___________ 환자 성명(정자체) 환자 생년월일 날짜 Print Name of Patient Patient’s Date of Birth Date _______________________________________ ___________________________________________ 환자 또는 환자의 법적 대리인 서명 법적 대리인 성명(정자체) 및 관계(해당하는 경우) Signature of Patient or Patient’s Legal Representative Print Name of Legal Representative and Relationship (if applicable) NYU Langone HIE, Care Everywhere 및 Healthix 정보 안내서 HIE, Care Everywhere 및 Healthix를 통해 교환되는 환자 정보에 대한 세부 사항과 동의 절차: 1. 귀하의 정보 이용 방법 귀하의 전자 의료 정보는 HIE 참여자와 Care Everywhere 제공자에 의해 다음의 용도로만 사용됩니다.  치료 및 관련 서비스 제공.  의료 보험 가입 여부 및 보장 범위 확인.  모든 환자에게 제공되는 의료의 품질 평가 및 개선. 주 및 연방 법에 의해 달리 허용되지 않는 한, 그리고 Healthix가 허용하는 경우, 귀하의 전자 의료 정보는 다음 목적에 한해서 NYU Langone Health 의료 보험 플랜에 의해 공개, 열람 및 사용될 수 있습니다.  치료 관리 활동 제공. 여기에는 적절한 의료 서비스를 받는 데 도움을 주고, 제공되는 의료 서비스의 품질을 개선하고, 제공되는 여러 가지 의료 서비스를 조정하거나 치료 계획을 따르는 데 있어 귀하를 지원하는 일들이 포함됩니다.  품질 개선 활동 제공. 여기에는 귀하와 모든 NYU Langone Health 환자 및 회원에게 제공되는 의료 서비스의 품질을 평가하고 개선하는 것이 포함됩니다. 참고: 이 동의서에서 귀하가 선택하는 내용으로 귀하에게 의료 보험을 제공하거나 청구서를 납부할지를 결정할 목적으로 의료 보험사가 귀하의 정보를 열람하는 것을 허용하지 않습니다. 해당 결정은 의료 보험사가 사용해야 하는 별도의 동의서에서 선택할 수 있습니다. 2. 귀하에 관한 정보 중 포함되는 유형. 귀하가 동의를 하면, HIE 참여자 및 Care Everywhere 제공자는 HIE를 통해 제공되는 모든 전자 의료 정보를 열람할 수 있으며, NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관의 모든 직원, 대리인 및 의료진은 Healthix를 통해 사용할 수 있는 귀하의 모든 전자 의료 정보를 열람할 수 있습니다. 여기에는 이 동의서 날짜 전후에 작성된 정보가 포함됩니다. 귀하의 건강 기록에는 질병이나 부상의 병력(예: 당뇨병 또는 골절), 검사 결과(예: X선 또는 혈액 검사), 복용한 약의 목록이 포함될 수 있습니다. 이 정보는 다음을 포함하는 민감한 건강 상태와 관련이 있을 수 있지만 이에 국한되지 않습니다.  알코올 또는 약물 남용 문제. 진단, 투약, 진단 정보, 이력 및 요약, 임상 기록 및 퇴원 요약을 포함하되 이에 국한되지 않음  피임 및 임신 중절(가족 계획)  정신 건강 치료  알레르기  유전 질병이나 검사  성병  HIV/AIDS 3. 귀하에 관한 건강 정보 출처. 귀하에 대한 정보는 귀하에게 치료 또는 의료 보험을 제공한 곳(“정보 출처”)에서 나옵니다. 여기에는 병원, 의사, 약국, 임상 검사실, 의료 보험사, Medicaid 프로그램 및 의료 정보를 전자식으로 교환하는 기타 ehealth 기관이 포함될 수 있습니다. 현재 HIE 정보 출처의 전체 목록은 해당되는 경우 NYU Langone Health System 또는 HIE 참여 의료 서비스 제공자로부터 받을 수 있습니다. HIE 웹 사이트 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/를 방문하면 언제든지 업데이트된 정보 출처 목록을 열람할 수 있습니다. NYU Langone Health 개인 정보 보호 담당자에게 NYU Langone Health, Privacy Officer, One Park Ave, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10016 주소로 편지를 보내거나 212 404 4079로 전화하여 연락할 수 있습니다. Healthix 정보 출처의 전체 목록은 Healthix에서 열람할 수 있으며, Healthix 웹 사이트 http://www.healthix.org 또는 전화번호 877 695 4749로 전화하여 언제든지 받아볼 수 있습니다. 4. 동의할 경우 귀하에 관한 정보를 열람할 수 있는 사람. 본 동의서 양식에서 언급된 “NYU Langone Health System 및 연계 기관”에는 NYU Langone 병원, NYU 의학대학원(School of Medicine), NYU Langone 소재의 가족 건강 센터(Family Health Centers), NYU Winthrop 병원 및 NYU Winthrop 의료 연계 기관(Medical Affiliates)이 포함됩니다. 이상의 기관 소속의 다음의 사람들만이 귀하의 정보를 열람할 수 있습니다. 귀하의 치료에 관여하는 승인된 HIE 참여자, Healthix 참여자 또는 Care Everywhere 제공자의 의료진으로 귀하에게 치료를 제공하는 의사 및 기타 의료 서비스 제공자. 승인된 HIE 참여자 또는 Care Everywhere 제공자 소속 의사를 대신하거나 당직 중인 의료 서비스 제공자. 품질 개선 또는 치료 관리 활동과 관련된 지정된 직원. 이 동의서 1단락에 명시된 바에 따라 허용된 활동을 수행하도록 승인된 HIE 참여자 및 Care Everywhere 제공자의 직원. 5. 귀하의 정보의 부적절한 열람에 대한 처벌. 귀하의 전자 의료 정보를 부적절하게 열람하거나 사용하는 것에 대해 처벌이 있습니다. 귀하의 정보에 관해 권한이 없는 사람이 귀하의 정보를 열람한 것이 의심되는 경우, 언제든 귀하의 정보를 열람할 권한이 있는 HIE 참여자 또는 Care Everywhere 제공자에게 연락하거나 HIE 웹 사이트 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/를 방문하거나, 뉴욕 주 보건부(NYS Department of Health)에 877 690 2211번으로 전화하십시오. 귀하의 정보에 관해 권한이 없는 사람이 Healthix를 통해 열람한 것이 의심되는 경우 Healthix에 877 695 4749번으로 전화하거나 Healthix 웹 사이트 http://www/healthix.org를 방문하거나, 뉴욕 주 보건부(NYS Department of Health)에 877 690 2211번으로 전화하십시오. 6. 정보의 재공개. 귀하에 관한 모든 전자 의료 정보는 주 및 연방 법률 및 규정에서 허용하는 범위 내에서만 HIE 참여자 또는 Care Everywhere 제공자에 의해 다른 사람에게 재공개될 수 있습니다. 이는 종이 양식으로 기록된 의료 정보에 대해서도 동일하게 적용됩니다. 위의 #2에서 언급한 바와 같이, 귀하가 동의하면 민감한 의료 정보를 비롯한 모든 전자 의료 정보가 HIE 및 Healthix를 통해 제공됩니다. 일부 주 및 연방 법은 다음과 관련한 일부 민감한 의료 정보에 대해 특별 보호를 제공합니다. (i) 특정 제공자로부터 받은 귀하의 건강 상태 평가, 치료 또는 검사, (ii) HIV/AIDS, (iii) 정신 질환, (iv) 정신 지체 및 발달 장애, (v) 약물 남용, 및 (vi) 소인성 유전 검사. 이러한 종료의 민감한 의료 정보를 받을 때마다 주 및 연방 법의 특수 요건을 따라야 합니다. 의료 정보 교환을 통해 이러한 정보를 열람하는 Care Everywhere 제공자를 포함한 HIE, Healthix 관계자는 이러한 요건을 반드시 준수해야 합니다. 7. 유효 기간. 이 동의서는 귀하가 동의를 철회하는 날 또는 HIE가 운영을 중단하는 시점 또는 귀하의 사망일로부터 50년 후의 시점 중 더 늦은 시점까지 유효합니다. 8. 동의 철회. 새로운 동의서에 서명하고 동의하지 않습니다를 선택하면 언제든지 동의 철회가 가능합니다. HIE 웹 사이트 http://health connect.med.nyu.edu/에서 해당 양식을 받을 수 있습니다. 양식을 작성하면 917 829 2096으로 팩스를 보내거나 귀하의 의료 제공자에게 제출하십시오. 참고: 귀하의 동의가 유효한 상태에서 HIE 및/또는 Healthix를 통해 귀하의 정보를 열람하는 Care Everywhere 제공자를 포함한 기관은 귀하의 정보를 복사하거나 기관의 의무 기록에 포함할 수 있습니다. 이들은 나중에 귀하가 동의를 철회하더라도 이를 반환하거나 기록에서 삭제하지 않아도 됩니다. 9. 상자에 체크(선택)하는 것의 거부. “동의하지 않습니다” 상자에 체크하지 않는 한, 뉴욕 주 법에 따라 응급 상황에서 귀하를 치료하는 사람들이 HIE를 통해 제공되는 기록을 비롯한 귀하의 의무 기록을 열람할 수 있습니다. 선택을 하지 않으면 뉴욕 주 법에서 허용하는 응급 상황을 제외하고는 기록이 공유되지 않습니다. 10. 양식 사본. 귀하는 동의서 양식에 서명한 후, 이 동의서 양식의 사본을 받을 수 있습니다. 11. 동의 거부 시 위험요소. HIE 참여자 및 Care Everywhere 제공자가 HIE 및 Healthix를 통해 귀하의 정보를 열람하는 것을 거부하는 경우, 귀하의 의료 서비스 제공자는 이전에 기록된 귀하의 중요한 의료 정보를 적절한 시점에 열람하지 못할 수 있습니다.


Page 1 of 5 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Definitions The definitions below apply to all of the NYU Langone Health HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures and are derived from the HIPAA Rules. Terms not otherwise defined shall have the same meaning as those terms have under the HIPAA Rules. • Authorization: a patient’s written permission to allow NYU Langone Health to Use or Disclose specified Protected Health Information. Different types of activities (e.g., Fundraising, Research) have specific authorization requirements. • Breach: the acquisition, access, Use, or Disclosure of Protected Health Information in a manner not permitted by the HIPAA Rules that compromises the security or privacy of the Protected Health Information. • Business Associate: a company or individual who performs a function or service for or on behalf of NYU Langone Health that creates, receives, maintains, or transmits Protected Health Information in connection with that function or service. • Business Associate Agreement: a contract between NYU Langone Health and a Business Associate that meets the requirement specified by HIPAA. • Common Rule: The Federal Policy for the Protection of Human Subjects. This regulation governs human subjects research. • Confidential HIV Related Information: is any information indicating that a patient has had an HIV related test, has an HIV related illness or AIDS, or has an HIV related infection as well as any information that could reasonably identify the patient as a person who has had such a test, has an HIV related illness or AIDS or has an HIV related infection. • Disclosure or Disclose: the release, transfer, provision of access to, or divulging of information, in any manner, outside the entity holding the information. • De Identified Information: de identified information is health information that is not subject to the same regulations as Protected Health Information because there is no reasonable basis to believe the information could be used to identify an individual. Certain identifiers must be removed for information to be considered de identified. • Designated Record Set: a group of records maintained by or for NYU Langone Health that are medical records, billing records, a health plan’s enrollment, payment, claims adjudication, and case or medical management records, or any group of records that is used, in whole or in part, by or for NYU Langone Health to make health care decisions about patients. The term record means any item, collection, or grouping of information Page 2 of 5 that includes Protected Health Information and is maintained, collected, used, or disseminated by or for NYU Langone Health. • Electronic Health Record: an electronic record of health related information on an individual that is created, gathered, managed, and consulted by authorized health care clinicians and staff. • Fundraising: includes any activity undertaken to raise money or other things of value on behalf of NYU Langone Health. It also includes, but is not limited to: requests for donations; requests for special purpose donations (e.g., to benefit cancer research or to remodel a reception area); requests for sponsorship of events or activities (e.g., charity dinner). • Genetic Information: information about an individual’s genetic tests, the genetic tests of their family members, information about a manifestation of a disease or disorder of an individual’s family member. Genetic Information also includes information regarding any request for or receipt of genetic services and any research participation that includes these services. • Health Care Operations: refers to a variety of activities undertaken by NYU Langone Health in the regular course of business. It includes conducting quality assessment and improvement activities, conducting fraud and abuse detection, business planning and development, management activities, and customer service. • Health Information: means any information, including genetic information, whether oral or recorded in any form or medium, that: (1) Is created or received by a health care provider, health plan, public health authority, employer, life insurer, school or university, or health care clearinghouse; and (2) Relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual; the provision of health care to an individual; or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual. • Health Information Management or HIM: the department that is responsible, among other things, for maintaining NYU Langone Health’s patient records and access to such information. • Health Plan: a health plan, or insurer, means an individual or group plan that provides, or pays the cost of, medical care. This can include: a group health plan, an HMO, Medicare Part A or B, Medicaid, or a private health insurer. • HIPAA or HIPAA Rules: means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 as may be amended from time to time. As referenced within these policies, this includes the Privacy, Security, and Breach Notification Rules and the HITECH Act. • Incident or Privacy/Security Incident: the unauthorized access, use, disclosure, theft, loss, modification, or destruction of protected health information or personally identifiable information. Incidents do not always arise to the level of a breach. • Institutional Review Board or IRB: the Institutional Review Board for NYU Langone Health which is responsible for overseeing compliance with laws and regulations for human subjects research. • Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management or IACERM: the department that is responsible for overseeing NYU Langone Health compliance with the HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. IACERM is also responsible for breach investigations and notifications required by the HIPAA Rules or state law. • Investigator: an individual who is a NYU Langone Health Workforce Member involved in conducting Research. Page 3 of 5 • Limited Data Set: a set of data in which most of the personal identifiers have been removed. Certain identifiers must be removed for a data set to be considered a Limited Data Set. • Marketing: any oral or written communications with a patient about a product or service that encourages the patient to purchase or use that product or service. Marketing may also include the provision of patient information to another organization so that it may market its own products and services if NYU Langone Health receives direct or indirect Remuneration for providing the organization with this patient information. Marketing does not include communications that are made to describe a health related product or service provided by NYU Langone Health for Treatment purposes, case management, or care coordination purposes. • Medical Center Information Technology or MCIT: The information technology department for NYU Langone Health. MCIT is responsible for overseeing NYU Langone Health compliance with the security rule regulations and implementing security safeguards in conjunction with IACERM. • NYU Langone Health: as referenced within these policies includes the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (e.g., Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, NYU Hospital Long Island, New York State Article 28 locations), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, NYU Langone Health Home Care , the Sunset Park Health Council (i.e., the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health), the Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice, and any entity controlled by any of them except were specifically excluded. • Payment: the activities undertaken by NYU Langone Health to obtain or provide reimbursement for health care services it has provided. This includes billing, collection activities, and billing review activities. • Patient Directory: the list of patients who are admitted to the Hospital, registered for an interventional procedure at an Article 28 outpatient space, or in the Emergency Department. This list is generated by NYU Langone Health’s electronic health record system. An interventional procedure is any procedure requiring sedation or anesthesia, not including local anesthesia, including but not limited to the following procedures: endoscopy, catheterization, and interventional radiology. • Personal Representative: a person who may legally act with authority on behalf of another person in making decisions about health care. In New York State, this is a health care surrogate under the Family Health Care Decision Act or a health care agent pursuant to a health care proxy. • Personally Identifiable Information or PII: as defined by state law for breach notification purposes; generally a person’s first name or first initial and last name in combination with any of the following: o Social security number, o Driver’s license number or other identification number, or o Account number or credit/debit card number with the access code or password. • Privacy Board: The NYU Langone Health IRB is designated as the Privacy Board. The Privacy Board is responsible for reviewing Research protocols involving the waiver or alteration of Authorizations. Page 4 of 5 • Privacy Officer: refers to the NYU Langone Health designated HIPAA Privacy Officer, who is responsible for overseeing compliance with HIPAA policies and procedures. The Privacy Officer is a member of the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management. • Protected Health Information or PHI: any individually identifiable health information (including demographic information) created, maintained, received, or transmitted by NYU Langone Health that relates to health status, provision of health care or payment for health care and identifies the individual or there is a reasonable basis to believe it can be used to identify the individual. PHI does not include employment records that a covered entity maintains in its capacity as an employer and education and certain other records subject to the Family Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. §1232g). • Psychotherapy Notes: are notes by a mental health professional that (1) document or analyze the contents of a conversation during a private counseling session, or during a group, joint, or family counseling session, and (2) that are maintained separately from the patient’s general medical record. If a mental health professional’s notes are for any reason placed in the patient’s general medical record, they are no longer Psychotherapy Notes. Psychotherapy Notes do not include medication related information, session start and stop times, and any summary of diagnosis, treatment plan, symptoms, and prognosis. • Remuneration: direct or indirect payment that flows from or on behalf of a third party whose product or service is being described. It does not include payment for the Treatment of an individual. For marketing purposes, remuneration does not include non financial or in kind benefits. For sale of Protected Health Information purposes, remuneration does include non financial or in kind benefits. • Reproductive Health Information: health care that affects the health of an individual in all matters relating to the reproductive system and to its functions and processes. • Research: a systemic investigation, including Research development, testing, and evaluation, designed to develop or contribute to generalizable knowledge. This includes: basic research studies, clinical trials, or studies involving human subjects. • Treatment: the provision, coordination, or management of health care and related services among health care providers or by a health care provider with a third party, consultation between health care providers regarding a patient, or the referral of a patient from one health care provider to another. • Use: with respect to PHI, means the sharing, employment, application, utilization, examination, or analysis of such information within an entity holding the information. • Vendormate: NYU Langone Health’s Vendor Credentialing Program used to streamline the collection and management of key information regarding the business operations and representatives of our suppliers in accordance with hospital and regulatory policy. • Waiver or Alteration of Authorization: the decision of a qualified IRB or Privacy Board, as evidenced by proper documentation, that states the IRB or Privacy Board has waived or altered the HIPAA requirement for patient Authorization and permits NYU Langone Health to Use or Disclose the patient’s Protected Health Information for Research purposes. • Workforce Member: employees, trustees, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, agents, and other persons whose conduct, in the performance of work for NYU Langone Page 5 of 5 Health, is under the direct control of NYU Langone Health, whether or not they are paid by NYU Langone Health. Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to protecting the rights of our patients. In compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (“HIPAA”), the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”) and applicable federal and state laws and regulations (together, the “HIPAA Rules”), this policy sets forth NYU Langone Health’s practice of implementing, enforcing, updating, and documenting its compliance with the HIPAA Rules through these HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. • NYU Langone Health implements policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the HIPAA standards, requirements, and implementation specifications. • NYU Langone Health monitors changes to the HIPAA Rules and promptly revises its policies and procedures and, if required, the Notice of Privacy Practices. • NYU Langone Health will maintain documentation required for HIPAA compliance for a minimum period of six (6) years from the date of the creation of the document or the date the document was last in effect, whichever is later. Documentation will be retained in the patient’s medical record, by the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”), or other appropriate department based on the type and purpose of the documents and in otherwise in accordance with NYU Langone Health record retention policies. NYU Langone Health, as used in these policies, includes: NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including the NYU Langone Health Care Agency, NYU Grossman School of Medicine an administrative division of New York University (“NYUGSOM”), Sunset Park Health Council (d/b/a the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health) (“FHC”),and the Southwest Brooklyn Dental Practice (“SBDP”), and any entities controlled by any of them except where specifically excluded. For HIPAA purposes, NYU Langone Hospitals and NYUGSOM are designated as a single Affiliated Covered Entity (“ACE”). The ACE also participates in an Organized Health Care Arrangement (“OHCA”) with the FHC and the SBDP. With respect to the applicability of these policies to the FHC and SBDP, the appropriate FHC committee and board has approved. NYU Langone Health System and the NYU Langone MSO, Inc. are Business Associates of the covered entities in the OHCA. Page 2 of 2 Some entities may also have additional operational procedures that are site specific, in order to properly implement these privacy policies. Applicability These HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures apply to all members of the NYU Langone Health community, including employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. Policies that address patients’ rights apply for any patient of NYU Langone Health at any of its locations. Enforcement NYU Langone Health’s Privacy Officer has general responsibility for implementation of all Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. Individuals who are found to be noncompliant with these HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health. These policies shall remain in effect unless terminated or superseded by a revised and/or updated policy issued by IACERM. Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Medical Center Information Technology Security Policies Medical Center Information Technology Workforce Members IT Policy NYU Langone Health Notice of Privacy Practices Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Statement Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(i) 45 C.F.R. §164.530(j) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


HARKNESS CENTER FOR DANCE INJURIES Injury Prevention Workshop / Dance Educator Intensive Request Form I am interested in scheduling (check one): Injury Prevention Workshop ___ Dance Educator Intensive ___ Injury Prevention Workshops are for dance students and professionals and are offered as a lecture or a combination of lecture and movement. Dance Educator Intensives allow an in‐depth look at topics related to healthy training practices as well as educator self‐care and longevity. Desired length (check one): 60 minutes ___ 90 minutes ___ 2 hours ___ 2 4 hours ___ 1 day ___ Multiday ____ Name: __________________________________________________________________ Job Title: ________________________________________________________________ School/Affiliation: _________________________________________________________ Address: __________________________________________________________________ Are you interested in a lecture only, or a lecture and movement workshop*? (check one): Lecture only ____ Lecture and movement workshop ____ *Please note that NYU Langone Health requires that participants in movement workshops sign consent forms. A parent/guardian must sign the consent form for minors (ages 17 and under). Are you interested in having a virtual or in‐person workshop? (check one): Virtual ___ In‐person at NYU Langone Health ____ In‐person at my organization ____ Please note there is an additional fee for instructors to travel outside of New York City. If NYU Langone Health:  Please list preferred dates and times; we will do our best to accommodate. _________________________________________________________ Please answer the following if you would like to bring HCDI clinicians to your organization:  Organization address: _____________________________________________________  Preferred dates and times: _________________________________________________  Does your space have A/V capacity to project power point presentations? If yes, in what format should the instructor bring the presentation (e.g., flash drive)? ______________ ________________________________________________________________________ Approximately how many participants will attend the virtual or in‐person workshop? ________ What dance genre(s) do the participants practice? ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ What is the age range of your participants? Please select all that apply: Younger than 8 years _____ 13 15 years _____ Older than 21 _____ 8 10 years _____ 16 17 years _____ 11 12 years _____ 18 21 years _____ Has your group of students or dance educators had any type of previous injury prevention education? If yes, please briefly describe. _________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________ Please note any other questions or needs you have. _________________________________ _____________________________________________________________________________ To submit: please download PDF, complete, and email to Kristen.Stevens@nyulangone.org Thank you! Upon receiving your request, we will contact you to schedule your Workshop or Intensive, provide a budget, discuss content in detail, and answer any other questions.


NON TUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIAINTERACTION WITH THE EXTERNAL AND INTERNAL ENVIRONMENTSDavid L. Kamelhar, MD, FACP, FCCPOctober 2020PULMONARY, CRITICAL CARE AND SLEEP MEDICINENTM 20202FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE• Insmed: Speakers bureau •Why environmental factors are important in understanding the disease•Understand why those factors are important in assessing the individual patient•Gain perspective on how the personal (external and internal) environment is the pivotal factor in acquiring the infection and treating the infection•Emphasis on Biofilm in environment, disease and treatment•****Address varying levels of audience experience with NTM. Some review for the “veterans”GOALS OF TALKNTM 20203NTM 20204• Environment A & A Avoidance Acquisition• Personal predispositions Research updates• Non pharmacologic management Airway clearance • Medication Old and new approachesSEQUENCE OF REACTING TO THESE ORGANISMS FOR TODAYNTM 20205LARGE ENVIRONMENT TO LOCAL ENVIRONMENT• Significant geographic variation exists in the distribution of NTM species in the US• M. avium complex much more common in the South• M. abscessus in the WestGeographic Distribution of NTM identified among Clinical Isolates in the US, 2009 2013 Spaulding, et al. Annals ATS 2017NTM 20206Distribution of MAC by United State geographic region in PremierTM Healthcare Database, 2009 2013.NTM 20207• High risk Highlands, FL1.9 Santa Barbara, CA2.0 New York, NY2.7 Kalawao, HI3.7 Plaquemines, LA6.5• Low risk Washington, RI0.5 Iosco, MI0.4 Roane, WV0.4RELATIVE RISK OF CLUSTERS OF PULMONARY NTM AMONG MEDICARE BENEFICIARIESNTM 20208“The process by which water is transferred from the land to the atmosphere by evaporation from the soil and other surfaces and by transpiration from plants”EVAPOTRANSPIRATIONNTM 20209LOCAL ENVIRONMENT• Retrospective chart review 65 children in Florida• 21(32.) had 2+ positive sputum cultures NTM• 3 year follow up• CF patients who lived within 500 meters of water were 9.4 times more likely to have NTM PREVALENCE: PROXIMITY TO WATER CF CHILDRENBouso et al. 2016NTM 202011NTM 202012• Purpose: Test associations between MAC pulmonary disease (MAC PD) and NTM colonization of five potential point of use sources of pathogen exposure in homes• Washington and Oregon residents clinically diagnosed MAC PD• Population age, gender, population matched controls• Samples:1. Bathroom faucets2. Kitchen faucets3. Shower aerosols4. Indoor soil5. Outdoor soilSHOWERHEAD UPDATEAnnals ATS 10.23.2019NTM 202013• Findings: More NTM colonization in shower aerosols collected from case homes compared to controls• Other point of use sites did NOT exhibit this association (e.g. kitchen) Other studies found otherwise• The FIRST case controlled study between human health and NTM exposure in residential environmental environments• ****This study did not match DNA strains of shower head DNA to patient secretion DNA• Thus other considerations including the overall home environment that promotes NTM growth, etc. to be consideredSHOWERHEAD UPDATE (cont.)Annals ATS 10.23.2019NTM 202014• Investigated MAC colonization of household plumbing in suburban Philadelphia• Compared MAC isolated from plumbing biofilm with MAC isolated from patient respiratory specimens• M. avium was recovered from of 37 households including of M. avium patients• For 52. of those patients with M. avium disease, the recovered plumbing organism was the same genotype as that recovered from the respiratory isolate (sputum) (but not all)• 6 genotypes were recovered from the majority of households and patientsM. avium in Community and Household WaterLande, Wallace, Falkinham, et al. 3/2019NTM 202015• Citizen scientists collected specimens from showerhead biofilm samples• 665 households across the United States and Europe• Both culture dependent and non culture dependent methods were used to isolate mycobacteria (Stay tuned for Dr. Segal)• Mycobacteria were far more abundant in showerheads receiving water from municipal water sources than from well water• U.S. households were significantly higher in NTM isolates than European (Denmark and Spain)• Differences in regional geography as well as in water chemistry influenced the isolatesGLOBAL DISTRIBUTION OF MYCOBACTERIA IN SHOWERHEADSGebert, Adjemian, et al 2018NTM 202016• Those regions of the USA that are traditionally identified with relatively high abundance of known mycobacteria in the showerheads generally overlapped with the regions that have a higher than average prevalence of NTM lung disease• Conclusion: Mycobacterial distribution in showerhead biofilms are often predictable from household location and water chemistry• This understanding of NTM transmission and dynamics may help to reduce exposure from these increasingly prevalent organismsGLOBAL DISTRIBUTION OF MYCOBACTERIA IN SHOWERHEADS• ASIAN PACIFIC > WHITES 228 VS. 116/ 100,000• WESTERN STATES > EASTERN 149 VS 131• WOMEN > MEN 1.4 TO 1.0Within the same environment, intrinsic factors are operative as wellNIH 2012 AdjemianNTM 202017•OPPP’s: Opportunistic Premise Plumbing Pathogens•Grow within biofilms and sediments, not freely•May be viruses, bacteria, fungi and protozoal diseases•Not all such organisms are pathogenicNeed to understand biofilms to prevailWHY SHOWERHEADS?SAPROZOIC ORGANISMSNTM 202018MICROBIAL LIFE FORMS CYCLENTM 202019NTM 202020• During biofilm assembly, bacteria secrete a substance (matrix) with polysaccharides, lipids and nucleic acids• This matrix material allows for a biofilm architecture which is three dimensional• Bacteria in biofilm achieve maximal replication rate• Far higher concentrations of antibiotic required to kill biofilm bacteria than free swimming bacteria of same strain (10 1000X)• When nutrients run out, bacteria can rapidly disperse and colonize better locations where conditions are more favorable once more• Very sophisticated system!!!BACTERIAL BIOFILMNTM 202021• Mycobacteria are “Biofilm Pioneers”• Mycobacteria adhere to and form biofilm in saprozooic (plumbing) settings and in airways, bronchial tubes, cavities and bronchiectaticairways!• Mycobacteria “buddy up” with co pathogens, including Pseudomonas in these airways• Mycobacteria appear to become even LESS dependent on nutrients, oxygen and MORE resistant to chlorine• They appear to be more antibiotic resistant in biofilm settingMYCOBACTERIAL BIOFILMNTM 202022• Pseudomonas 21 fold• Legionella 83 foldM. avium 567 fold (!!!!!) Resistance is increased in biofilm stateCHLORINE RESISTANCE OF OPPP’S vs. E.ColiM. abscessus less adherent than M. avium and M. intracellulare on surfacesBIOFILM AND NTMNTM 202023NTM 202024• Until now, have discussed NTM biofilm in the environment. Now in the patient• NTM LD ( lung disease) often occurs in patients with underlying disease (old TB, silicosis, bullous disease, lung cavities) Fibrocavitary• NTM form biofilm in the cavities and progress to cause disease• This is more recently recognized in 1980’s 90’s re Lady Windermere Syndrome, including chronic bronchiectasis and Cystic fibrosis. Nodular bronchiectatic• ***Mycobacterial biofilms have recently been identified in samples from lung cavitary disease• Experimental data have shown that biofilm is important in the ability of NTM to invade bronchial epithelial cellsBIOFILM IN NTM DISEASENTM 202025• Increasing awareness of importance of antibiotic resistance • This appears to be an emerging problem in drinking water distribution systems and not only in hospitals, ICU’s and locations where antibiotics are used (in abundance)• The bacteria were tested for resistance to four common antibiotics over one year.• The water was tested for these bacteria at the public water source (reservoir, etc.) and again at the outflow user source (home faucet, etc.)• This appears to be explained by the acquisition of antibiotic resistance(ARB=Antibiotic Resistant Bacteria) in the biofilm and the biofilm detachment of these organisms which are in turn released into the water system downstream, at the “consumer” location, e.g. faucet, showerheadBIOFILM IMPACT IN DRINKING WATER SYSTEMSIMPLICATIONS FROM BACTERIAL ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE TO NTM Zhang, et al . 2018NTM 202026BIOFILMNTM 202027• M. abscessus appears to less surface adherent than MAC• When M. abscessus does enter a biofilm state, it is more likely to “cord” and it is then more likely to transform from the smooth to rough colony state in the lab. That is more virulent form of M. abscessus! • Since antibiotics generally work against aerobically growing and metabolically active bacteria, treatment is far less successful against the biofilm state• The organism upregulates ten common metabolic pathways, changing the characteristics of the bacteria against which antibiotics have their effectMYCOBACTERIUM ABSCESSUS AND BIOFILMRojony 2020NTM 202028• These changes, including in the composition of the fatty cell wall as well as in the internal workings of the cell, make biofilm dwelling M. abscessus yet harder to deal with medically• Does any of the previously described in vitro Biofilm organism shedding occur as well????M.abscessus and Biofilm NTM 202029BIOFILMNTM 202030• In Europe, soil (indoor and outdoor) is a more prevalent reservoir of MAC than are tap water in North America and bathrooms in Japan• Dust aerosolized in homes in Europe where soil contained MAC grew and aerosolized MAC• Hypothesis: Individuals may carry MAC containing dust from environment to environment• New niches may form in this wayMAC RECOVERY FROM SOILNTM 202031• The infected stay infected• The infected are persistently infected• The infected are repeatedly infectedWorthwhile identifying source of infection NTM: IMPORTANCE OF BETTER PREVENTION• Environmental AND host factors• Water and water vapor involved• Aerosol• BiofilmUncertain which individual exposure(s) and behaviors are most involvedCLEAR THAT BIOFILM IS CENTRAL!!!CONCLUSIONS FOR NOWNTM 202032THANK YOU


Diagnostic and Treatment Options for Gastroesophageal Reflux and BronchiectasisAbraham Khan, MD, FACG, FASGEMedical Director, Center for Esophageal HealthNYU Langone HealthGastroesophageal Reflux and BronchiectasisHow could they be related???The Basics• The Esophagus Tubular structure• Major purpose: transport swallowed food from throat to stomach Extends from the upper esophageal sphincter (UES) to the lower esophageal sphincter (LES)SwallowingHow Many Practitioners Are Involved?• Many specialists and practitioners may be involved along with pulmonologists and primary care Including but not limited to:• Oral specialists/dentistry• Otolaryngologists (ENT)• Swallow center specialists• Gastroenterologists Esophageal/motility specialistsBackground: Swallowing Disorders•An oropharyngeal disorder Could be due to a problem in throat or larynx, may need ENT practitioner involved Could be due to a neuromuscular problem in this area, may need swallow therapist involved and particular swallow xrays•An esophageal motility (neuromuscular) disorder: problem with pushing food and/or liquid through esophagus into stomach Examples•Esophageal spasm, achalasia Can result in contents ascending up into airway•These problems may be mild and patient may not know there is a swallowing “problem”Esophageal Disease• Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease (GERD) Definition: a condition that develops when the reflux of stomach contents causes troublesome symptoms and/or complicationsGastroesophageal refluxSymptomsDamageSymptoms• Typical symptoms Postprandial heartburn Effortless regurgitation• Atypical symptoms Potentially due to GERD Includes trouble swallowing, chest pain, cough, hoarseness, excessive throat clearing, wheezing, feeling of a lump in the throatPotential Complications from Esophageal Disease Proximal to the EsophagusCurrent Knowledge• Prevalence of GERD in bronchiectasis ranges from 26 in a review of several studies This does not mean the GERD causes bronchiectasis each time• There is a relative lack of clinical studies looking at treatment options for GERD in patients with bronchiectasis in terms of the pulmonary outcomes One 2014 study of only 7 patients getting surgery for GERD showed that pulmonary function tended to improve One 2016 study of over 250 patients treated with or without a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) for GERD did not show a clear improvement overall of lung function after PPI therapy 6 months later•Only 27 patients got PPIs, and a portion of them did do significantly betterMcDonnell MJ et al. Respir Med 2018Treating GERD•Diet and lifestyle good habits•Often a PPI is chosen•Potential side effects of PPIs Iron deficiency, vitamin B12 deficiency, C difficile associated diarrhea, bacterial infections and SIBO are mechanistically plausible but risk estimates are low and they are treatable conditions Evidence for the development of chronic kidney disease, myocardial infarction, bone fracture, and dementia is low quality and currently not compelling to alter management•However Understand if need to be on this type of drug long term *Weigh risks versus benefits*Procedural GERD Treatment•Generally → alternatives to chronic acid suppression Outcome data being updated frequently•Best prognosis: current data Good symptomatic response to GERD medical treatment Proven pathological GERD Positive symptom correlation on ambulatory pH testing Normal esophageal motility•Future directions Understanding exact phenotypes based on diagnostic testing to guide procedural decisions for individual patients Need more outcome studies! *Major priority for our esophageal program here at NYU*Surgical fundoplicationMagnetic sphincter augmentationEndoscopic fundoplicationRadiofrequency treatmentQuestions Often Needing Answers•Does GERD predispose a patient to develop bronchiectasis?•Can GERD make bronchiectasis worse?•If GERD is involved, is the problem from acid, bile, or any type of reflux?•How should we treat GERD in patients with bronchiectasis?•Could an esophageal motility or swallowing problem complicate the picture?•*The answers to these questions remain very individualized*Procedures to Help• Upper endoscopy Procedure through mouth with anesthesia Good for looking at lining of esophagus and excluding complications in the esophagus from GERD Cannot disprove GERD Minimally useful for motility of the esophagusProcedures to Help•pH study #1: wireless pH capsule Small capsule placed on endoscopy Transmits acid data to recorder on outside of body for 48 96 hours Capsule falls off on own and does not need another procedure to retrieve Recorder returned by patient when recording has stopped Can determine in great detail the association between diet, lifestyle and the quantity of acid reflux over several days of a patient’s routine Can determine if the symptoms are likely due to acid refluxProcedures to Help• pH study #2:pH impedance testing Catheter through nose and into stomach, attached to a recorder worn by patient Records acid, bile and all liquid reflux for 20 24 hours Recorder returned the next day by patient and data is then downloaded Can detect how high up the reflux goes in the esophagus and also correlate that reflux to a patient’s symptomsProcedures to Help• Esophageal manometry Deciphers if there is a motility problem in esophagus Catheter placed through the nose and attached to computer on the outside of body Study takes 10 to 15 minutes of swallowing liquids in different positions Catheter is then removed and data is interpreted by physicianOur Approach• Our understanding of the association between GERD as well as other esophageal conditions with pulmonary disease like bronchiectasis continues to evolve.• When patients have an esophageal condition with bronchiectasis, it is still a very personalized field, and we typically have to use our advances in diagnostic testing to determine our best answers to: Is the esophageal condition in that individual patient contributing to the pulmonary disease? How best should the esophageal condition be treated, with a focus on a long term approach? How should we follow our treatment of the esophageal condition to determine if it is making a positive impact on the pulmonary disease?Thank YouContact Information:Abraham Khan, MDOffice: 212 263 3095