For example, I was able to obtain an MS in Clinical Investigation (MSCI) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Clinical and Translational Science Institute , which allowed me to become more efficient and productive in my research. With respect to cross-discipline collaboration, opportunities were readily available in my training program. Strong mentorship from investigators in other departments provided me with a solid foundation on which to analyze data and design new studies—at the heart of research education for clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different scientific disciplines. Growing a Research Program What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through your research program? My funding from the T32 training grant ended in 2021. Since then, I’ve secured additional funding from the Rheumatology Research Foundation and the National Psoriasis Foundation to continue my research in psoriatic arthritis. In collaboration with Dr. Scher, I’m leading a major multicenter, interventional, preventive study, . The randomized trial across five North American medical centers has begun recruiting patients with psoriasis. The purpose of this study is to determine if the drug guselkumab can prevent progression of psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis when compared to placebo and to other standard of care treatment in patients with high-risk psoriasis. In addition to providing critical insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the standard of care for patients. Looking ahead, what other projects are you excited about? I’m excited about a new project investigating changes in brain connectivity in individuals with psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis, as well as the risk and effects of depression on pain in psoriatic disease. We are currently seeking funding for this and other related investigations. Surgical Dermatology Services People with skin cancers, including basal cell or squamous cell carcinoma , as well as people who have noncancerous lesions such as atypical moles, cysts, or lipomas, may be referred to our surgical dermatologists for treatment. Our doctors are specialists in dermatologic surgery and oncology, including Mohs micrographic surgery. Our surgical dermatologists are experts in Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction, a type of surgery that offers the best outcomes for skin cancers. Mohs micrographic surgery and reconstruction is a specialized form of skin cancer surgery that offers the highest cure rate for certain types of skin cancer and high-risk tumors. It allows your surgeon to remove the least amount of healthy skin tissue, providing the best functional and cosmetic outcomes. Our dermatologic surgeons are members of the American College of Mohs Surgery, and are trained in skin cancer removal and reconstructive surgery. Our Surgical Dermatology Team Our doctors provide surgical dermatology services to treat skin cancers and problematic skin lesions. John A. Carucci, MD, PhD Maressa C. Criscito, MD Dermatologic Surgery, Cosmetic Dermatology Todd Coven, MD Mary L. Stevenson, MD We offer services online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. 646-754-2277 Our Programs Caring for a family member who has or another trouble with thinking or memory can be both emotionally and physically challenging. At NYU Langone’s Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program, we understand and are here to help. Our team of experts can provide you with the care consultation, support, education, and referrals that can make a difference. Our research has shown that caregivers who receive emotional and practical support experience measurable improvements in stress and emotional and physical wellbeing. Our experts evaluate people with memory-related conditions and help families cope with related symptoms. Learn More About Our Center Our support program offers comprehensive services, including care consultation, resources, education, and cultural experiences free of charge, online and in person for family caregivers in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island. We will refer caregivers from other areas to appropriate local resources. When you contact us, we connect you with a team that is focused on understanding and helping you with your caregiving challenges. We talk with you about what you are experiencing now and what to expect in the future. Support for Family Members Our services are free of charge and are available virtually and in person. Some of the services we provide include the following: comprehensive evaluation of your situation, so we can personalize our services to suit your needs and those of the person you are caring for education to help you understand the causes and symptoms of memory disorders and how to help your family member have the best possible quality of life time away from your care responsibilities—called respite—through special programs specifically designed for people in the early stages of memory and cognitive impairment, and referrals to professionals who can help you find the most appropriate provider individual and family care consultation with a social worker who can meet with you one-on-one, either via online video conferencing, by phone, or in person referrals to support groups and other organizations in your community ongoing access to our team for as long as you need us Our goal is to make it easier for you to meet the needs of your family member who has problems with thinking and memory, and to help you maintain your own wellbeing. Our services are free and available to family caregivers who live in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Staten Island or whose relative with dementia lives in those boroughs. Family caregivers include spouses, adult children and grandchildren, other relatives, and close friends. The Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Family Support Program is led by , and is supported by a five-year grant from the New York State Department of Health. For more information about our services, please call 646-754-2277. If you would like us to call you, please email Family.Support@NYULangone.org . Include your name, phone number, and the best time for us to reach you. Refer a Caregiver Physicians and other healthcare providers can refer a caregiver to our program by calling You may contact us via email at Our office is open Monday through Friday, from 9:00AM to 5:00PM. Cosmetic Dermatology Services Our dermatologists specialize in aesthetic dermatology and skin rejuvenation procedures. We offer innovative treatments for cosmetic concerns, including redness, pigmentation, fine lines, wrinkles, and aging. Cosmetic and laser treatments are performed by our dermatologists using the latest technology advancements. We provide several different types of laser treatments, including those that promote collagen; improve fine lines, wrinkling, and skin tone; address pigmented lesions and vascular lesions; and treat scars and stretch marks. We also use laser treatments to remove unwanted hair and tattoos. We use the latest laser and dermatologic treatments for cosmetic concerns such as wrinkles, fine lines, and spider veins. Our most popular cosmetic services include the following: neurotoxin injections, including Botox and Dysport, to treat frown lines, forehead wrinkles, crow’s-feet, and smile lines laser treatments for wrinkles, redness, hyperpigmentation, and skin resurfacing Kybella, or deoxycholic acid, injections to treat and improve the appearance and profile of moderate to severe fat below the chin, also called a double chin microneedling, a procedure that improves the appearance of fine lines, wrinkles, and scarring platelet-rich plasma therapy (PRP), a medical procedure that promotes rejuvenation, stimulation, and regrowth of hair and skin sclerotherapy, a procedure used to eliminate the appearance of spider veins soft tissue fillers, including Restylane, Juvéderm, Voluma, Belotero Balance, Sculptra, and Radiesse, for wrinkles, volume loss around the mouth and cheeks, and lip augmentation Our Cosmetic Dermatology Team Our doctors work together to provide the highest-quality care to treat cosmetic conditions affecting the skin. Behçet’s disease, a rare condition that causes inflammation in the blood vessels, can be difficult to diagnose because its symptoms, including mouth sores, skin problems, and arthritis, are found in many other conditions. An accurate diagnosis of is the key to managing these symptoms. At NYU Langone’s Behcet’s Disease Center, part of NYU Langone’s , our team has the experience to give you a correct diagnosis and start you on an effective treatment plan. Our level of expertise has made us one of the leading centers for the care and treatment of Behçet’s disease, considered a rheumatic condition because it causes blood vessel inflammation. We are also at the national forefront of research aimed at understanding the body processes that create the symptoms of Behçet’s disease, as well as the development of new treatment options. Because of the rarity of Behçet’s disease, people travel from outside New York City to our center for diagnosis and treatment. Please contact NYU Langone’s programs for help coordinating your travel plans and your medical experience at NYU Langone. Our rheumatologists are nationally recognized experts on Behçet’s disease. Yusuf Yazici Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement A new nano-arthroscopy system offers a promising alternative to traditional arthroscopic procedures. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Monitored anesthesia care plus soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia offers multiple benefits and no added risks. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Research finds same-day video calls most enhance patient satisfaction, followed by phone calls. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Leaders in orthopedics describe building a well-integrated system to advance high-quality care. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study investigates treatment to minimize blood loss in joint replacement patients with cardiovascular comorbidities. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders recently gathered in Chicago for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) held from March 22–26, 2022. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization In a survey of the general public (n = 202), researchers asked whether people thought they would prefer a toe-to-thumb transfer or pollicization for a thumb reconstruction after a traumatic injury, and no strong preference between the procedures was indicated. For respondents from China, 35.6 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 46.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 17.8 percent were unsure. For respondents from India, 34.7 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 57.2 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 8.2 percent were unsure. For respondents from Western countries, 38.4 percent strongly or somewhat favored pollicization, 50.5 percent strongly or somewhat favored toe-to-thumb transfer, and 11.1 percent were unsure. In a survey of the general public (n = 202) and surgeons (n = 106), surgeons underestimated the public’s perceived importance of having a five-digit hand. When asked how important it was to have a 5-digit versus 5-digit hand, 81.5 percent of respondents in the general population said it was important or very important, 6.0 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 12.5 percent had no opinion. Of the surgeons questioned, 58.7 percent said it was important or very important, 37.5 percent said it was unimportant or very unimportant, and 3.8 percent had no opinion. For thumb reconstruction after a traumatic hand injury, a lack of objective data on outcomes following index pollicization versus toe-to-thumb transfer has left patients and providers with few unbiased guideposts. To provide cultural context that may aid decision-making, , and colleagues collaborated with international researchers to examine differences in preferences and outcome expectations among hand surgeons and the general public in six Eastern and Western countries. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully … patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought.” Despite previous suggestions that preferences may depend upon location, their analysis revealed that the majority of surgeons involved in the study favored toe-to-thumb transfer over pollicization. In contrast, the general public didn’t strongly favor one procedure over the other, regardless of location. Surgeons held more optimistic expectations than the public on both procedures, underscoring the necessity of research to evaluate and more conclusively determine which reconstruction procedure optimizes patient outcomes. As it stands today, the researchers suggest discussing the pros and cons of each procedure, and ensuring good alignment in outcome expectations prior to surgery, to increase patient satisfaction and decrease anxiety and subsequent conflict. “Assumptions around culture should be made very carefully. Our analysis shows that patients around the world are much more similar in their preferences than previously thought,” Dr. Hacquebord says. Giving Psychedelic Medicine a Dedicated Infrastructure NYU Langone’s Center for Psychedelic Medicine has received more than $10 million in philanthropic support, with more than $5 million of it dedicated to research training. The center’s three-pronged approach combines psychiatry, medicine, and preclinical research. SOURCE: NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine A first of its kind, the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine will advance a burgeoning area of basic science by providing a dedicated, essential infrastructure for research and training in therapeutic use of psychedelics. The new center builds on long-standing expertise at NYU Langone Health that garnered more than $10 million in donations for its creation. Researchers at NYU Langone have published seminal papers on the clinical benefits of psychedelics to treat a range of conditions, including addiction, cancer-related psychiatric conditions, major depression, and post-traumatic stress disorder. The center boasts more than 30 dedicated researchers and is currently enrolling in five clinical trials . For early career scientists, the center offers the nation’s first Psychedelic Medicine Research Training Program “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained.” “These initiatives will provide an environment in which scientists, clinicians, trainees, and other staff contribute in meaningful ways to ensure that the momentum created by the modern psychedelic renaissance is sustained and continue to yield medical breakthroughs backed by sound science,” says center director , a professor of psychiatry. For more information, visit the Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Buccally absorbed cannabidiol (CBD) improves pain control and patient satisfaction following arthroscopic rotator cuff repair, according to a presented at the 2022 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons Annual Meeting . Led by investigators at NYU Langone Health, the research also suggests higher CBD doses may correspond with improved outcomes. , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, co-director of the , and first author on the study, explains that while there is growing interest in CBD for managing pain without opioids, data on safety and effectiveness are scarce. Co-authors on the study include , an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, , chief of the Division of Sports Medicine, and Andrew S. Rokito, MD , chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. “Oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” “CBD formulations are readily available but are relatively unregulated and unmonitored through the FDA,” Dr. Alaia says. “Our study is one of the first to formally evaluate the use of CBD in orthopedic surgery and shows that oral disintegrating CBD tablets are safe and effective in reducing pain in the immediate postoperative period following shoulder arthroscopy.” Participants either received oral tablets containing 25 or 50 mg of CBD (based on body weight) to be taken three times a day for 14 days, or placebos identical in taste and appearance. NYU Langone received an investigational new drug application (IND) from the FDA to use ORAVEXX in the study. All participants also received oxycodone/acetaminophen to take one to two tablets every four to six hours, as needed. Pain, as assessed by the visual analog scale, was significantly lower in those receiving CBD compared to placebo on postoperative day one. Moreover, patient satisfaction with pain control was significantly higher in those receiving CBD on both postoperative day one and two. “While results at later time points did not always reach statistical significance, overall, patients receiving CBD consistently reported lower levels of postoperative pain and higher satisfaction compared to patients in the placebo group,” explains Dr. Alaia. When broken down by subgroup, patients receiving 50 mg of CBD reported even lower pain scores and higher satisfaction compared to those receiving 25 mg. “It is interesting that the greatest effects of the medication were observed when patients were in more significant pain. This gives us hope that a well-developed CBD formulation can have similar promise and effectiveness in other pathologies in which pain can be quite significant,” Dr. Alaia says. Dr. Alaia receives research support from Orcosa, Inc. He receives consulting fees for Depuy Mitek, JRF Ortho, and Arthrex. Radiation Therapy Shows Promise for Arrhythmia Treatment A cardiac CT provided the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Multimodal Imaging Adds Another Layer of Innovation When the same patient kept presenting to the emergency department with ventricular tachycardia requiring shocks from an implanted defibrillator, Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD , a cardiac electrophysiologist and specialist in cardiovascular disease, considered all options before his team in the and radiation oncology decided the case warranted a groundbreaking approach: stereotactic radiation therapy guided by novel, multimodal imaging. The patient had already undergone several cardiac catheter ablations to prevent the dangerous heart rhythm and reduce the recurrent need for shocks. The ventricular tachycardia stemmed from a prior heart attack, and the area of the heart causing the arrhythmia could not be treated by a catheter-based procedure. “We were able to figure out exactly where this patient’s rhythm problem was coming from,” Dr. Barbhaiya says. “But because of its location, the energy source we use, and the thickness of the tissue, we couldn’t get enough energy to the area for a successful ablation.” “It’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option.” Planning the radiation treatment required an army of specialists all working to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue in the patient’s heart that could be targeted to prevent the arrhythmia. A key element was a non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, with non-invasive mapping, a procedure that creates an electrical map of the ventricular tachycardia after the heart is stimulated to recreate the arrhythmia. The patient wears a monitoring vest while an electrophysiologist stimulates the heart via the patient’s defibrillator and tracks cardiac responses. The electrical maps are combined with a cardiac CT scan. Dr. Barbhaiya relied on radiologists, medical physicists, as well as outside consults to evaluate the combined images and determine, within millimeters, the best region and approach for radiation therapy. While the procedure required upwards of a week to plan, the actual radiation therapy was less than 15 minutes. “It’s clearly very early and the technology is still under development, but it’s a promising therapy for patients that have no other option,” Dr. Barbhaiya says, adding, “Treatment was done on a Friday, and they were discharged on a Saturday.” CT Provides A Foundation A cardiac CT provides the anatomical foundation for radiation therapy used to treat arrhythmias that do not respond to ablation or medical therapy. The emerging approach uses multimodal imaging to precisely identify areas of the heart to irradiate. A Personalized, Electroanatomic Map First, electrophysiologists create a 3D map of a patient’s heart to display electrical activity and reveal the arrhythmia location. Non-Invasive Program Stimulation (NIPS) Using a technique known as non-invasive program stimulation, or NIPS, the arrhythmia is induced, and the next step is to map electrical activity during the arrhythmia. Developing A Radiation Treatment Plan Combining the images allows a multidisciplinary team to pinpoint the smallest area of tissue that can be irradiated with confidence (red boundary). The area encompasses the entire arrhythmia, while minimizing the risk of radiation exposure to other areas of the heart. Chirag R. Barbhaiya, MD, is an assistant professor and specialist in cardiac electrophysiology and cardiovascular disease. His clinical interests include mapping and ablation to treat atrial fibrillation, ventricular tachycardia, and other arrhythmias. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, and a surgical team. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff For treating adolescent idiopathic scoliosis (AIS), orthopedic surgeons have long viewed posterior spinal fusion as the gold standard despite some significant drawbacks. “I’ve been doing scoliosis surgery for more than 20 years now,” says Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD , clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “We do a good job of correcting the spinal curves with fusion surgery, but the quality of life for patients is negatively impacted.” Particularly among younger pediatric patients, the fusion technique can interfere with growth, motion, and flexibility and prevent their involvement in sports and other activities. Diagnosed with scoliosis himself at the age of 12, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri was fortunate to avoid surgery. The experience, though, inspired his career and dedication to helping maintain others’ quality of life. A More Flexible Alternative Introduced a decade ago, , or VBT, has rapidly developed into a viable alternative. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s expertise in VBT has helped advance the muscle-sparing method, which uses flexible polymer cords threaded through titanium screws attached to vertebrae on one side of the spine. The process, called growth modulation, pulls the spine into alignment as a child grows. Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri is one of the only surgeons to use the VBT procedure for early-onset scoliosis in patients as young as six years old, and to use CT imaging for precise titanium screw placement to minimize the risk during surgery. To improve the curve correction and minimize the risk of cord breakage, he is among the few surgeons to employ two cords with a double set of screws instead of a single cord. “The idea with this technology is to let them move around,” says Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri. “Maybe they’ll need a fusion when they’re older, but at least you’re giving them a good quality of life, they can continue to grow, the spine can continue to grow, and the lungs can continue to develop.” “The idea with this technology is to let them move around … I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery.” Grateful families have sent videos of their children resuming the activities they enjoyed before the VBT procedure, often within four to six weeks. “I had one patient who was dancing 18 days after her surgery,” he says. Comparing Results in Curve Correction In addition to potential breathing and back problems from scoliosis, clinical data suggest that patients with an L5 tilt of more than 16 degrees are at higher risk for future disc degeneration if the tilt remains uncorrected. The VBT procedure has yielded good results in Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri’s initial cases and may help prevent disc degeneration better than fusion, but the two techniques hadn’t been compared head-to-head. He recently led a single-center retrospective cohort analysis of 41 patients with AIS. Among them, 21 underwent a VBT procedure and 20 received a posterior spinal fusion. The researchers used preoperative and postoperative radiographic analyses to measure differences in the patients’ main, secondary, and fractional curve Cobb angles and in the L5 tilt. At two years postoperatively, the VBT cohort had significantly smaller fractional curve angles and L5 tilt, translating into a greater correction of the L5 tilt (-17.2 ± 10.2 versus -6.3 ± 6.9 degrees. The benefit of VBT over posterior spinal fusion was maintained even after propensity matching to account for demographic differences. The results suggest that the VBT technique, which is better at preserving scoliosis patients’ range of motion, flexibility, and growth, offers an effective non-fusion alternative for correcting the spinal deformity. In addition, Dr. Rodriguez-Olaverri says, VBT may lead to fewer complications later in life by preventing degenerative changes—an added benefit he hopes to substantiate with further study through his clinical practice. Spine Surgery, Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri, MD, PhD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of early-onset scoliosis. He specializes in the surgical and nonsurgical treatment of scoliosis, spina bifida, spinal injuries in athletes, and a variety of other spine conditions. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in Chicago, November 5–7. Stimulant Shows Promise in Treating Sluggish Cognitive Tempo in Adults with ADHD Many patients with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) complain of feeling lethargic and foggy-headed—symptoms at odds with common conceptions of ADHD. These individuals may be suffering from sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT) , a comorbid symptom set characterized by persistent dreaminess, spaciness, hypoactivity, and difficulty initiating tasks. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains.” recent study led by NYU Langone Health researchers—the first of its kind—suggests that the stimulant lisdexamfetamine (LDX), marketed as Vyvanse®, may be an effective treatment for SCT in adults with ADHD. A Little-Understood Syndrome Although SCT co-occurs most frequently in ADHD, it can accompany conditions such as depression and schizophrenia as well; debate persists over whether it is a separate disorder. What’s certain is that it can pose daunting challenges for people who have it. “In patients with ADHD, co-occurring SCT has been shown to significantly increase impairment in a wide variety of domains,” says , a professor of psychiatry and child and adolescent psychiatry and director of the Adult ADHD program. “Yet little is known about treating this syndrome in adults.” To find out more, Dr. Adler led a two-phase (phenotypic and treatment) randomized crossover trial of SCT and ADHD in adults at NYU Grossman School of Medicine and Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai. The phenotypic phase characterized SCT, ADHD, and executive function symptoms in individuals who had ADHD and SCT versus those who had ADHD and were SCT-negative. An interim report of the NYU Langone cohort confirmed previous findings that individuals with both SCT and ADHD, versus ADHD alone, had higher levels of inattentive and other symptoms. The new study, , reported on the treatment phase. A Trailblazing Trial The study was the first medication trial for SCT in adults with ADHD, rather than children, and the first trial of amphetamines (known to be the most effective ADHD drugs) for comorbid SCT in any age group. Dr. Adler and his multi-institutional team studied 38 adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT in the 10-week crossover trial, with two double-blind treatment periods. During the first period, subjects were randomized to receive either oral LDX or a placebo; they crossed over during the second treatment phase, after a placebo washout period of several weeks. The results were encouraging: LDX reduced self-reported symptoms of SCT by 30 percent. The drug also lowered ADHD symptoms by over 40 percent, and significantly corrected deficits in executive function. Strikingly, the researchers found that only 24 percent of overall improvements in SCT symptoms were due to improvements in ADHD symptoms. Further SCT Research In addition to indicating that LDX could be an effective treatment for adults with co-occurring ADHD and SCT, Dr. Adler observes, “our study provides further evidence that sluggish cognitive tempo might be distinct from ADHD.” It also suggests that LDX might help control the syndrome in other contexts. “The next line of research,” he adds, “is to determine whether patients who have SCT without ADHD will respond similarly to this drug.” Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction Twenty months after the surgical insertion of the temporary hip spacer, the patient suffered a severe dislocation with a near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Correction of Dissociated Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer A 65-year-old woman who had undergone a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip subsequently contracted a bacterial infection that required several revision surgeries at NYU Langone Health to implant an antibiotic-loaded temporary hip spacer and treat her trochanteric fracture and instability. Twenty months after revision, the patient presented to the emergency department after experiencing discomfort and noticing a significant change in her leg length for three to four days. Pelvic X-rays revealed a severe dislocation of the hip spacer with near-complete extraction of the cemented implant from the left femur. Prior history of trochanteric fracture added to the patient’s hip instability. Orthopedic surgeon , worked with colleagues to confirm the absence of infection and performed a same-day revision surgery in which he converted the spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. “The challenges of the case were ruling out infection, addressing a four-day-old dislocation in a non-compliant patient with pressure on her sciatic nerve, and managing the loss of her trochanter and the resulting instability from a lack of attached abductor muscles,” Dr. Meftah says. “We also had to meticulously remove all of the cement from her femur and acetabulum and take into account her stiff spine to avoid implant impingement while getting her leg length equal.” “We managed to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Computer navigation helped the surgical team ensure an anatomy-appropriate correction of the patient’s leg length and proper implant positioning. “It’s teamwork, and that includes infectious disease, anesthesia, and the entire perioperative surgical teams,” Dr. Meftah says. “We managed to take care of this patient very rapidly in a very safe manner to rule out infection, get the appropriate implants, and clear her right away for surgery knowing that she had been dislocated for several days.” Two weeks post-surgery, the patient was walking well with a cane and pleased with her progress. X-Ray of an Antibiotic-Loaded Hip Spacer One year after a total hip arthroplasty for avascular necrosis in her left hip, the patient sustained a periprosthetic dislocation with trochanteric fracture and chronic bacterial infection. She underwent revision surgery to implant an antibiotic-loaded hip spacer with a constrained liner. The loss of her left trochanter is visible in this X-ray. Hip Implant Dislocation and Dissociation A Same-Day Correction A same-day revision surgery converted the temporary spacer to a final implant secured with screws and a constrained liner. Hip and Knee Reconstruction, Orthopedic surgery Morteza Meftah, MD, is a clinical associate professor of orthopedic surgery who specializes in hip and knee reconstruction and in diagnosing and treating arthritis. He is chair of the Center for Orthopedic Innovation and co-director of Robotic and Computer-Assisted Joint Replacement Surgery. Heart Attack Accelerates Breast Cancer Dr. Kathryn Moore. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff “There are four million breast cancer survivors in the United States and they’re at increased risk of cardiovascular disease due to treatments and lifestyle changes that come with a cancer diagnosis,” says , Jean and David Blechman Professor of Cardiology. While this increased risk is known, questions have remained about whether a major cardiovascular event actually impacts cancer pathogenesis. In a letter published in Dr. Moore and colleagues used mouse models and human data to better understand the effects of myocardial infarction on breast cancer recurrence. The study is one of many that have paved the way for Dr. Moore to become a nationally renown cardiovascular researcher. In 2021, she was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and named the American Heart Association’s Distinguished Scientist in Arteriosclerosis, Thrombosis, and Vascular Biology. In 2022, she received the Gill Heart and Vascular Institute Award for Outstanding Contributions to Cardiovascular Research. Curiosity-Driven Research Just as with her other studies, Dr. Moore’s latest research into cardiovascular disease and cancer was driven by curiosity. “I was intrigued by our early finding that breast cancer survivors with a cardiovascular event have up to a 60 percent increased risk of recurrence, plus an elevated risk of death from their cancer,” Dr. Moore says. “I wanted to understand what it is about heart attack that is causing this elevated risk.” “We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” On her short list of possibilities was resultant ischemia, tissue damage, release of immunomodulatory factors, or other signaling changes. As it turned out, reprogramming of the immune system plays a major role. The Tumor Microenvironment Yields Answers As a first step, the researchers confirmed that myocardial infarction accelerates breast cancer tumor growth in mouse models. Then, they examined the post-heart attack tumor microenvironment for altered immune cell composition. Dr. Moore’s team found significant changes in levels of immune cells, specifically a sustained increase in circulating monocytes that were later recruited to the tumor site. There were no changes in numbers of macrophages, neutrophils, or dendritic cells. The elevated monocytes—monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells, or mMDSCs—are immunosuppressive. Depleting these cells eliminated the tumor growth advantage in mice following heart attack. The mMDSCs also had a transcriptional phenotype epigenetically imprinted in the bone marrow. “Mouse models revealed the heart attack reprograms hematopoetic cells in the bone marrow to be more immunosuppressive, which allows the tumors to grow faster,” Dr. Moore explains. Impact On Patient Care Dr. Moore’s team also performed a retrospective analysis to translate their findings to patients with early-stage breast cancer. The researchers found that, for patients with no existing cardiovascular disease, a post-diagnosis heart attack or similar was associated with a 59 percent increased rate of breast cancer recurrence and a breast cancer-specific mortality rate of 60 percent. “Already there are implications for physicians,” Dr. Moore says. “Cardiovascular risk factors should be carefully managed in cancer survivors. We need to prevent heart attack to avoid worse cancer outcomes.” Next, Dr. Moore is focusing on biochemical signals that may trigger the epigenetic reprogramming of bone marrow cells following heart attack. The work requires careful collaboration between the and the new at NYU Langone Health, of which Dr. Moore is the founding director. “Our goal was to create a center focused on interdisciplinary research, and cardiovascular disease in cancer is a great example,” she says. Leading a Global Study of Antithrombotics in Acute COVID-19 A hallmark of acute COVID-19 is the high incidence of thrombotic events associated with moderate to severe illness. The Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines 4 ACUTE (ACTIV-4A) study, part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH)-coordinated ACTIV research program , is a landmark trial involving more than 3,000 patients in the U.S. and other countries investigating potential strategies to address vascular integrity and thromboinflammation in hospitalized patients with COVID-19. “Early on in the pandemic we noticed a lot of clotting, both microscopically and macroscopically—often in places where we don’t usually see it,” says and an expert on the etiology of thrombotic disease. Dr. Berger was appointed a co-principal investigator of ACTIV-4A after developing a pilot study on the use of heparin for preventing thrombotic events among patients with COVID-19 in the NYU Langone Health system. The NIH adapted the protocol for that study as the basis for the larger trial. “After just over a year’s work, we were able to change clinical practice.” International Collaboration Accelerates Results Another NYU Langone researcher, , the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, was named study chair of ACTIV-4A. As a leader of complex international clinical trials such as OAT SHOCK , Dr. Hochman is known for