based cryosurgical system for whole gland cryosurgery treatment. (Clinical Principle) Optimal oncologic and QoL outcomes of whole gland cryosurgery are achieved with a third generation, argon based cryosurgical system. In addition to a urethral warming catheter, real time ultrasound monitoring of the advancing ice ball is recommended.115 A double freeze thaw cycle is standard protocol as numerous studies have demonstrated greater likelihood of complete cell kill and treatment zone devascularization. 115,255 The advancing hyperechoic margin identified on TRUS is approximately 0oC with the inner edge representing the point of intracellular ice formation at approximately 15oC to 20oC.256 The desired nadir temperature at the prostate capsule to ensure complete cell kill is 40oC.115,256 54. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering cryosurgery that it is unclear whether or not concurrent ADT improves cancer control, though it can reduce prostate size to facilitate treatment. (Clinical Principle) The Panel is unaware of any conclusive studies evaluating whether or how the use of concurrent ADT enhances or mitigates the oncologic efficacy of cryosurgery. Nevertheless, the addition of ADT to cryosurgery is common. Two randomized trials of EBRT versus cryosurgery have been reported with primarily intermediate risk, high risk, or locally advanced disease patients. Both utilized 6 months of perioperative ADT for both treatment arms. One study of primarily localized prostate cancer reported similar actuarial 5 year overall and disease specific survival.76 The other study, terminated early for lack of accrual and consisting of primarily high risk or locally advance disease patients demonstrate an inferior 8 year biochemical disease free recurrence rate for the cryosurgery and ADT arm ( vs. ).141 For glands greater than 40 g, neoadjuvant ADT (3 6 months) should be considered due to the potential technical challenges from pubic arch interference and increased difficulty in achieving uniform temperatures.115 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 35 55. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that erectile dysfunction is an expected outcome. (Clinical Principle) Available evidence has shown that erectile dysfunction should be expected the usual outcome for potent patients undergoing whole gland ablation. In a 2009 review of the literature, Langenhuijsen and colleagues concluded that most patients (80 ) should expect erectile dysfunction after whole gland cryosurgery and that it should not be offered to patients who desire preservation of potency.77 In one RCT sexual function outcomes for cryosurgery were inferior to EBRT.76 In non randomized cohort studies, sexual function outcomes for cryosurgery were also inferior to brachytherapy257,258 and comparable to radical prostatectomy.258 To improve the likelihood of erectile function recovery, nerve sparing and focal prostate cryosurgery has been reported.259 However, focal ablation cryosurgery lacks robust long term oncologic data. 56. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery about the adverse events of urinary incontinence, irritative and obstructive urinary problems. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) As with all treatments, in addition to the high risk of erectile dysfunction, patients considering cryosurgery should be informed about the risks of adverse urinary and bowel quality of life outcomes. Urinary retention after cryosurgery can persist for a few weeks and is best managed with a urethral or suprapubic catheter. Urethral sloughing at the verumontanum where the urethral warming catheter may not fully contact the mucosa apposition can result in temporary bothersome irritative symptoms in the early recovery period. Urethral fistula with third generation cryosurgical systems and thermocouple monitoring is very rare (0.) in primary treatment cases. 77,115 Permanent urinary incontinence can be expected in less than of patients. 77,115 In the only completed RCT comparing cryosurgery to EBRT, cryosurgery patients reported modestly better urinary function outcomes three years after treatment.254 In the only other randomized trial comparing cryosurgery to EBRT (which was comprised predominantly of patients with locally advanced disease, but also included patients with high risk localized disease and was aborted before reaching half of the accrual goal), cryosurgery patients reported less gastrointestinal toxicity and comparable genitourinary complaints than those who received EBRT.260 In non randomized cohort comparisons to brachytherapy, cryosurgery patients reported slightly less incontinence (11. versus 18. respectively)257 but comparable urinary function and urinary bother outcomes.258 In a non randomized comparison to radical prostatectomy, cryosurgery patients showed modestly better urinary function and bother outcomes.258 HIFU AND FOCAL THERAPY The Panel recommends that if HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for localized prostate cancer, it should be done within the context of a clinical trial. Prospective randomized or comparative trials with other treatment modalities are lacking. Published five year oncologic outcomes are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 However, it has been recognized that the PSA nadir level after whole gland HIFU is predictive of biochemical recurrence.261 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of localized prostate cancer. Whole prostate ablation utilizing HIFU with or without short term neoadjuvant ADT has been associated with a comparable incidence of post treatment incontinence, bladder neck/urethral stricture, and rectourethral fistulae.262 Focal therapy is based on the concept that, although prostate cancer can present as multifocal disease within the prostate gland, some patients may have a significant single index intraprostatic lesion. This index lesion may be associated with the most aggressive nidus of cancer within the gland and may be the most appropriate target for treatment. A prerequisite for focal therapy involves advanced mapping of lesions within the prostate. This can be done with a saturation biopsy or, more commonly, with MRI imaging with focused biopsy or a 3 dimensional transperineal mapping biopsy to identify appropriate patients with clinically significant disease, to provide an appropriate index target, and to provide an appropriate target for follow up scanning and biopsies.118,125 Focal therapy involves subtotal or zonal destruction of the prostate with cryosurgery, HIFU or other focally ablative techniques with the aim to minimize treatment toxicity. The Panel acknowledges that focal ablative therapy is of significant interest to patients and clinicians as it may offer benefits in terms of QoL for selected patients with a solitary well defined index lesion. However, the Panel recommends that if focal therapy is offered as an alternative treatment modality American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 36 for localized prostate cancer, it should only be done within the context of a clinical trial. Initial studies with short term follow up suggest that effective disease eradication in the treated volume can be attained.118,124 A systematic review of focal therapy has been published to provide some information regarding the clinical outcomes that can be expected with the application of focal therapy.124 However, it should be noted that long term follow up data is lacking. The Panel recognizes that concern exists about the potential for undetected and, therefore, occult untreated clinically significant multifocal disease. Confirmation of oncologic effectiveness is currently lacking and will require prospective studies with long term follow up. 57. Clinicians should inform those localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy or HIFU that these treatment options lack robust evidence of efficacy. (Expert Opinion) The Panel recognizes that novel therapies including HIFU and focal prostate ablation may provide QoL advantages for patients in comparison to surgery and radiotherapy. However, there is a lack of consensus on objective response criteria, very limited long term oncologic data, and, importantly, no comparative effectiveness data versus traditional treatments available. For patients with intermediate and high risk disease treated with HIFU, neoadjuvant ADT has been demonstrated to reduce PSA recurrence, but long term oncologic effectiveness is unknown.262 For focal therapy, initial reports with short term follow up suggest effective disease eradication in the treated area of appropriately selected patients. Studies where TRUS biopsy of the treated volume or side was performed per protocol, clinically significant cancer was identified in a minority (<) of patients.122 124 A recent consensus conference acknowledge that with increasing experience, prostate volume may not be a primary determinant for denying focal therapy.263 However, given the concern about the potential for undetected and untreated occult multifocal disease, agreement on robust endpoints and confirmation of oncologic effectiveness in larger series with longer follow up is currently lacking. When discussing such novel therapies as HIFU and focal therapy, clinicians should inform patients of the lack of robust long term oncologic data and how this relates to the patient’s own life expectancy and the significant potential for recurrence and/or new prostate cancer development. Patients should also be informed that the appropriate treatment for disease progression and the risk of metastatic progression remain undefined. 58. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering HIFU that even though HIFU is approved by the FDA for the destruction of prostate tissue, it is not approved explicitly for the treatment of prostate cancer. (Expert Opinion) Most treatments for prostate cancer, such as surgery, radiation, and cryosurgery, predate mandated regulation by the FDA. Thus, by the time the FDA started to control what treatments could be delivered, all three of these treatments were grandfathered as approved for prostate cancer. However, this was not the case for HIFU. Initial attempts were made to get HIFU approved for treatment of prostate cancer. To accomplish this, the FDA mandated a clinical trial of HIFU versus another similar treatment, and cryosurgery was chosen. However, due to poor accrual, this trial never completed. In further discussion with the FDA, it was felt that the FDA may accept an alternative indication for HIFU destruction of prostate tissue. Thus, after submitting a revised application, ultimately, on October 9th, 2015 the FDA approved HIFU for destruction of prostate tissue. To date, HIFU is still not approved for treatment of prostate cancer. As noted, no other modern treatment for prostate cancer had to obtain similar regulatory approvals. Thus, the fact that HIFU is not FDA approved for treating prostate cancer does not necessarily mean it is inferior to other treatments. However, the fact that it is not approved has implications for patients. While discussion of costs of care is beyond the purview of the Panel, the Panel did agree that patients should be informed of the lack of FDA approval for treating prostate cancer and the potential implications of this ruling. 59. Clinicians should advise localized prostate cancer patients considering HIFU that tumor location may influence oncologic outcome. Limiting apical treatment to minimize morbidity increases the risk of cancer persistence. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Physicians may have difficulty fully ablating anterior tumors in patients with prostate volumes greater than 40 g due to the limited focal length of the HIFU technology. Post treatment MRI has demonstrated a margin of untreated anterior tissue in such patients.264 In addition, to minimize possible thermal injury to the external urethral sphincter and risk incontinence, it is common practice to initiate HIFU several millimeters proximal to the apical capsule and rely on heat diffusion to ablate the apical margin. However this can increase American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 37 the risk of incomplete treatment in patients with apical tumors. Employing a 6 mm apical safety margin Boutier et al. reported on 99 patients (mean prostate volume of 24 g) who underwent systematic prostate biopsies 3 6 months after treatment.265 Of patients with residual cancer, were in the apical sextants, in the mid gland, and in the base. Limited data suggest whole gland HIFU ablation is not optimally suited for men with a prostate >40 g due to limited focal length of technology and higher rates of urinary retention. The mean prostate volume in virtually all HIFU series is less than 40 g. This is due to the limited focal length of the technology preventing the ability to treat anterior tumor extension, increase in procedure time, and higher rates of urinary retention.78,262 TURP or neoadjuvant ADT prior to HIFU for patients with large prostates can prevent post procedure urinary retention and reduce prostate volume.78,266 60. As prostate cancer is often multifocal, clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy that focal therapy may not be curative and that further treatment for prostate cancer may be necessary. (Expert Opinion) The hypothesis of treating only the dominant lesion to minimize toxicity is attractive to the patient and clinician.118,267 However, the Panel agrees that patients should be counseled that a subset of non index cancers in the prostate may have a higher grade and, if untreated, pose a risk.118 In addition, patients should be informed that there is no consensus on objective response criteria. The prevailing opinion is that patients should undergo a targeted and template post treatment biopsy approximately one year after treatment to assess for residual viable cancer. A rising PSA or suspicious areas on mpMRI should also trigger biopsy.263 Residual clinically significant cancer may be detected in targeted biopsies in a small but significant percentage of patients requiring additional therapy.123,263 Men should also be informed that after any focal or ablative treatment, follow up biopsies will still be required. V. OUTCOME EXPECTATIONS AND MANAGEMENT TREATMENT SIDE EFFECTS AND HEALTH RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE 61. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that erectile dysfunction occurs in many patients following prostatectomy or radiation, and that ejaculate will be lacking despite preserved ability to attain orgasm, whereas observation does not cause such sexual dysfunction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In counseling patients about potential QoL effects after different treatment options, it is important to provide data based on modern treatment technologies. Because surgical and radiation technologies have evolved significantly over time, QoL results from patients treated in an older era likely do not represent the results of patients treated today. In a prospective QoL study, poor erections increased from of patients (pre treatment) to at 2 years after radical prostatectomy (increase of ), to after EBRT (increase of ), and to after brachytherapy (increase of ).32 While patients after surgical or radiation treatments may lack ejaculate, many preserve the ability to attain orgasm.32 The proportions of patients who reported difficulty with orgasm from before to 2 years after treatment were to (radical prostatectomy), to (external beam radiotherapy), and to (brachytherapy). In addition, climacturia can occur in of patients after radical prostatectomy.268 Time course of sexual dysfunction differs between radical prostatectomy and radiation treatment (both EBRT and brachytherapy). Radical prostatectomy causes an immediate worsening of sexual function, with recovery over two years of time afterwards.32,52 EBRT and brachytherapy cause a more modest acute decline of sexual function after treatment, also with partial recovery thereafter.32,52 Adding ADT to prostatectomy or radiotherapy adds to the sexual dysfunction.32 Erectile dysfunction of radiotherapy plus three to six months of ADT versus radical prostatectomy was compared in a randomized trial.52 Approximately of men reported erections firm enough for intercourse at baseline, which declined to at 6 years after radical prostatectomy, after radiotherapy with ADT, and in the active monitoring group. A study of patients diagnosed in 1994 95 and assessed long term patient reported QoL showed that sexual function was similar after radical prostatectomy and EBRT from 5 to 15 years after treatment.53 Non treatment (active surveillance or watchful waiting) does not directly cause sexual dysfunction except for worsening of function and symptoms related to aging. 62. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that long term obstructive or irritative urinary problems occur in a subset of American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 38 patients following observation or active surveillance or following radiation, whereas prostatectomy can relieve pre existing urinary obstruction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) A small but significant subset (10 ) of men with localized prostate cancer, have problematic obstructive LUTS at the time of cancer diagnosis, and a similar number will develop obstructive symptoms de novo while on observation or surveillance, or after radiotherapeutic or ablative treatment.47,51,269 271 Pre existing obstructive LUTS can be mitigated by prostatectomy, representing a notable clinical scenario wherein prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer can result in improvement rather than impairment of health related QoL. 269,271 63. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that whole gland cryosurgery is associated with worse sexual side effects and similar urinary and bowel/rectal side effects as those after radiotherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In the single randomized clinical trial comparing EBRT and cryosurgery,76 the short term sexual function was worse for cryosurgery than EBRT.254 At 3 years, men in the cryosurgery group experienced lower sexual function scores compared with EBRT (16.0 versus 36.7, p<0.001), there was no difference in bowel function scores, and men in the EBRT group had slightly lower urinary function scores compared to cryosurgery (88.6 versus 93.0, p=0.049), but this difference is of questionable clinical significance. Longer term data comparing these side effects of cryosurgery and EBRT from this study are lacking. Three nonrandomized studies of lower quality compared cryosurgery to brachytherapy for urinary, bowel and sexual outcomes.257,258,272 The findings were not consistent. In one study patients treated with brachytherapy had significantly more incontinence and sexual dysfunction, but less bowel events, than patients treated with cryosurgery.257 In another study, patients treated with cryosurgery had more incontinence than those treated with brachytherapy (10 year rate brachytherapy 0.61 versus cryosurgery 2.44).272 In the third study, the authors did not perform a test of statistical significance for this comparison, so the results are inconclusive for bowel, urine and sexual outcomes.258 64. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary urinary incontinence occurs in most patients after prostatectomy and persists long term in a small but significant subset, more than during observation or active surveillance or after radiation. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Urinary incontinence is a well known side effect of radical prostatectomy. The magnitude of urinary incontinence is most profound in the first few months after prostatectomy, when incontinence is commonplace, during which time QoL in the urinary domain is significantly worse after prostatectomy then it is among patients who undergo radiotherapy or surveillance (which are not associated with early incontinence). Notably, urinary incontinence subsides to be small to no bother for most men by one year post prostatectomy. Beyond one year after treatment, urinary continence is moderately (or more) bothersome for 5 of men, whereas urinary obstructive or irritative symptoms are similarly bothersome for 5 of men after radiotherapy or during active surveillance. This pattern of urinary incontinence and recovery following prostatectomy, contrasted to the pattern of obstructive and irritative symptoms during surveillance or after radiotherapy, has been demonstrated in multiple RCTs and prospective, multi center cohorts alike. 32,51,52,64,271,273 65. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary proctitis following radiation persists in some patients long term in a small but significant subset and is rare during observation or active surveillance or after prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) In counseling patients about potential QoL effects after different treatment options, it is important to provide data based on modern treatment technologies. Because surgical and radiation treatment technologies have evolved significantly over time, QoL results from patients treated in an older era likely do not represent the results of patients treated today. A prospective randomized trial comparing active surveillance, radical prostatectomy, and 3D conformal radiotherapy reported QoL outcomes in these three groups of patients.52 The proportion of patients who reported loose stools increased after radiotherapy (15. at baseline to 25. at 6 months, absolute increase 9.), but subsequently declined to baseline levels (15.) at 72 month follow up. Bloody stools also increased modestly after radiotherapy, from 1. at baseline to 5. at 72 months (absolute increase American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 39 4.). Another study published in 2008 of patients who received IMRT demonstrated the absolute increase of bloody stools from baseline to 2 years to be , rectal pain , bowel urgency , frequency , and incontinence .32 Increases in symptoms are similar after brachytherapy.32 These data show that radiation treatment causes proctitis affecting < of patients for most symptoms. It is possible that with more modern radiation technology (image guided radiotherapy), risk of proctitis could be less. Proctitis is not expected after radical prostatectomy or in patients who receive no treatment.52 POST TREATMENT FOLLOW UP 66. Clinicians should monitor localized prostate cancer patients post therapy with PSA, even though not all PSA recurrences are associated with metastatic disease and prostate cancer specific death. (Clinical Principle) Initial therapy for localized prostate cancer is intended to cure the cancer. Remission/possible cure is variably defined; however, a reasonable definition of long term remission and likely cure is no evidence of PSA or radiographic progression 10 years after initial localized therapy. Remission after prostatectomy is defined as nadir PSA < 0.2 ng/ml and in the context of radiation +/ ADT nadir PSA <2.0 ng/ml with testosterone recovered if previous ADT. PSA surveillance after local therapy is recommended for at least 10 years with PSA frequency determined by risk of relapse and patient preferences for monitoring. PSA monitoring beyond 10 years can be considered in men with high risk of relapse and long life expectancy. Patients should be informed that salvage therapies with potential for cure are available. Salvage therapy after prostatectomy includes radiation with or without ADT. The cure rates for salvage radiation vary according to patient risk factors, such as Gleason score, time to PSA failure after prostatectomy, and PSA doubling time. Salvage therapies after radiation are heterogeneous and include prostatectomy, HIFU, cryosurgery, and repeat radiation. Many of the post radiation salvage approaches have either high potential for toxicity or low or unclear rates for cure and the pros and cons of localized salvage therapy after radiation should be carefully considered with the patient. It is recommended that the treating physician carefully explain the goals of therapy and probability for cure. In addition the definitions of relapse after curative therapy should be outlined. It is important to educate the patient of the kinetics of testosterone recovery after ADT and expected concomitant rise in PSA. The natural history of relapsed prostate cancer is extremely variable. The important clinical metrics include time to metastasis and death from prostate cancer. The definition of metastatic prostate cancer and a clear differentiation of the difference between PSA relapse, metastasis and death from prostate cancer should be explained to the patient.274 With indolent PSA relapse or in men with competing morbidities, no additional therapy for prostate cancer may ever be needed. Patients are often focused on PSA levels and can’t differentiate between PSA relapse and death from prostate cancer. In the setting of indolent PSA relapse it is paramount that the treating physician relieve patient stress and anxiety by educating the patient and family of the long natural history of relapsed marker only prostate cancer and in most cases the low chance of death from prostate cancer within 10 years of local therapy. 67. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients of their individualized risk based estimates of post treatment prostate cancer recurrence. (Clinical Principle) An accurate assessment of the risks of failure and success for prostate cancer treatment are essential to good patient counseling and SDM. While the 5 year relative survival for prostate cancers diagnosed in 2005 to 2011 (most recent data) are for localized disease; many factors, such as tumor grade and stage as well as patient race, family history and age, play an important role in determining a personalized prognosis.275 In order to synthesize all of an individual’s personal and cancer specific characteristics, there are a number of published predictive models and nomograms offering prognosis of pathologic stage, biochemical recurrence after treatment, as well as development of metastatic disease and likelihood of survival after treatment.276 278 For the most part, these prognostic tools focus on the most common, evidence based treatment modalities, such as surgery and radiotherapy, while some attempt to predict outcomes such as biochemical recurrence and positive follow up biopsies after treatment with therapies such as cryosurgery.279,280 Genomic testing can add to risk stratification of men with adverse pathological features or biochemical recurrence following initial treatment.281 283 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 40 68. Clinicians should support localized prostate cancer patients who have survivorship or outcomes concerns by facilitating symptom management and encouraging engagement with professional or community based resources. (Clinical Principle) Potential resources to consider include psychosocial support (referral to social worker for patients experiencing distress), local prostate cancer support groups, and national/international prostate cancer patient advocacy groups that can provide information and further support (e.g., the Urology Care Foundation, the Prostate Health Education Network, Us TOO, and ZERO the End of Prostate Cancer). Prostate cancer patients and survivors should also be offered available survivorship programs to help improve functional outcomes, psychological and other health needs. VI. FUTURE DIRECTIONS The extended time course between prostate cancer diagnosis and its eventual outcome poses challenges to the timeliness of ascertaining the efficacy of newer approaches to cancer risk ascertainment or therapeutic intervention. The maturation of evidence to provide robust guidance for optimizing care consequently lags the development of new technology. Nevertheless, emerging evidence is anticipated in several key areas, while well designed, multi center studies are urgently needed in others. Emerging evidence is anticipated from follow up analyses of the ProtecT randomized trial comparing active surveillance, prostatectomy, and radiotherapy. Data maturation may elucidate longer term outcomes (i.e. whether or not differences seen in clinical metastases between arms at 10 years will lead to differences in subsequent mortality). Subsequent analyses of ProtecT also have the potential to further clarify the role of surveillance versus treatment between low and intermediate risk cancers. Emerging evidence is also anticipated from clinical trials evaluating the risk benefit of brachytherapy compared to external radiotherapy (RTOG 0232), and the relative risk/benefit of extended compared to standard lymphadenectomy during radical prostatectomy for patients with intermediate and high risk disease. Well designed prospective studies are needed to optimize the utility of new imaging modalities (e.g., multiparametric MRI or PET with prostate specific radiotracers), to evaluate risk/benefit of ablative techniques (e.g., HIFU or focal ablative treatment), and to characterize the impact that even limited intervals of androgen deprivation may have on long term HRQOL. The need to better characterize long term HRQOL effects of ADT warrants special emphasis, as this treatment modality is part of the standard recommended radiotherapy care options for intermediate and high risk disease and is already broadly utilized. We need better evidence to council patients regarding the impact of adjuvant androgen deprivation on long term HRQOL, despite recognition that effects on vitality, libido, and cognitive status can be substantial among patients undergoing ADT monotherapy. To enable progress in prostate cancer care that is informed by the best evidence we must continue to prospectively evaluate new technologies as they are developed. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 41 REFERENCES 1. Viswanathan M, Ansari MT, Berkman ND et al: Assessing the risk of bias of individual studies in systematic reviews of health care interventions. AHRQ Publication No. 12 EHC047 EF. In: Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews. AHRQ Publication No. 10(14) EHC063 EF. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. January 2014. Chapters available at www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov 2. Faraday M, Hubbard H, Kosiak B et al: Staying at the cutting edge: a review and analysis of evidence reporting and grading; the recommendations of the American Urological Association. BJU Int 2009; 104: 294. 3. Hsu C and Sandford BA: The Delphi technique: making sense of consensus. Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation 2007; 12: 1. 4. D'Amico AV, Whittington R, Malkowicz SB et al: Biochemical outcome after radical prostatectomy, external beam radiation therapy, or interstitial radiation therapy for clinically localized prostate cancer. JAMA. 1998; 280:969. 5. National Comprehensive Cancer Network: Prostate Cancer Version 3.2016. National Comprehensive Cancer Network 2016. 6. Epstein JI, Walsh PC, Carmichael M et al: Pathologic and clinical findings to predict tumor extent of nonpalpable (stage T1c) prostate cancer. JAMA 1994; 271:368. 7. Tosoian JJ, Mamawala M, Epstein JI et al: Intermediate and longer term outcomes from a prospective active surveillance program for favorable risk prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:3379. 8. Iremashvili V, Pelaez L, Manoharan M et al: Pathologic prostate cancer characteristics in patients eligible for active surveillance: a head to head comparison of contemporary protocols. Eur Urol 2012; 62: 462. 9. Cooperberg MR, Pasta DJ, Elkin EP et al: The University of California, San Francisco Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment Score: a straightforward and reliable preoperative predictor of disease recurrence after radical prostatectomy. J Urol 2005; 173: 1938. 10. Klaassen Z, Singh AA, Howard LE et al: Is clinical stage T2c prostate cancer an intermediate or high risk disease? Cancer 2015; 121:1414. 11. Zumsteg ZS, Spratt DE, Pei I et al: A new risk classification system for therapeutic decision making with intermediate risk prostate cancer patients undergoing dose escalated external beam radiation therapy. Eur Urol 2013; 64: 895. 12. Zumsteg ZS, Chen Z, Howard LE et al: Number of unfavorable intermediate risk factors predicts pathologic upstaging and prostate cancer specific mortality following radical prostatectomy: results from the SEARCH database. Prostate 2016; 77: 154. 13. Mathieu R, Moschini M, Beyer B et al: Prognostic value of the new Grade Groups in Prostate Cancer: a multi insitutional European validation study. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2017; Epub ahead of print. 14. Cooperberg MR, Freedland SJ, Pasta DJ et al: Multiinstitutional validation of the UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment for prediction of recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Cancer 2006; 107: 2384. 15. Fowler FJ, Jr., Gallagher PM, Bynum JP et al: Decision making process reported by Medicare patients who had coronary artery stenting or surgery for prostate cancer. J Gen Intern Med 2012; 27: 911. 16. Wennberg JE: Unwarranted variations in healthcare delivery: implications for academic medical centres. BMJ 2002; 325: 961. 17. O'Connor AM, Llewellyn Thomas HA, and Flood AB: Modifying unwarranted variations in health care: shared decision making using patient decision aids. Health Aff (Millwood) 2004; Suppl Variation: VAR63. 18. Stacey D, Legare F, Col NF et al: Decision aids for people facing health treatment or screening decisions. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; 1: CD001431. 19. Légaré F, Stacey D, Turcotte S et al: Interventions for improving the adoption of shared decision making by healthcare professionals. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014; 9:CD006732. 20. Violette PD, Agoritsas T, Alexander P et al: Decision aids for localized prostate cancer American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 42 treatment choice: systematic review and meta analysis. Ca Cancer J Clin 2015; 65: 239. 21. Légaré F, Stacey D, Kryqoruchko J et al: Interventions for improving the adoption of shared decision making by healthcare professionals. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010; 5: CD006732. 22. Institute of Medicine: Crossing the quality chasm: a new health system for the 21st century. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2001. 23. Makarov DV, Chrouser K, Gore JL et al: AUA white paper on implementation of shared decision making into urological practice. Urology Practice 2016; 3: 355. 24. Zhong S, Yan X, Wu Y et al: Body mass index and mortality in prostate cancer patients: a dose response meta analysis. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2016; 19: 122. 25. Islami F, Moreira DM, Boffetta P et al: A systematic review and meta analysis of tobacco use and prostate cancer mortality and incidence in prospective cohort studies. Eur Urol 2014; 66:1054. 26. Jiang J, Teng Y, Fan Z et al: Does obesity affect the surgical outcome and complication rates of spinal surgery? A meta analysis. Clin Orthop Relat Res 2014; 472:968. 27. Si HB, Zeng Y, Shen B et al: The influence of body mass index on the outcomes of primary total knee arthroplasty. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc 2015; 23: 1824. 28. Kunutsor SK, Whitehouse MR, Blom AW et al: Patient related risk factors for periprosthetic joint infection after total joint arthroplasty: a systematic review and meta analysis.