107 1 1077,Supplement to August1, 1993.Abstract: The Save Our Sisters (SOS) Project,a pilot demonstration study in a rural NorthCarolina county, addressed breast cancerscreening in older black women in an effort tohelp more older black women receivemammography screening. The targetpopulation was 2,600 black women ages 50 to74 living in the county. To help these womenobtain annual mammograms, SOS recruited andtrained 64 black women to serve as lay healthadvisors. These advisors reached older blackwomen through relatives, friends, and jobnetworks. Responses from 14 focus groupinterviews found that, for older black women'shealth concerns, women turn to certain womenfor social support. Program planners evaluatedfocus group results and applied them to theSocial Change model to design the healthadvisor training program. The program usedthree network intervention strategies:(1)providing social support (information andreferrals, emotional caring, and tangibleassistance) through interpersonal counselingwith women in their social networks; (2)working as a group by planning andimplementing breast cancer control andprevention activities through communityorganizations to which advisors belong (e.g.,church, civic, and social groups); and (3)establishing the participants as a nonprofit,60Cancercommunity SOS Association to sustain projectinterventions after the funding period. The SOSCommunity Advisory Group and the advisorsdeveloped innovative methods of recruitment,implementation, and follow up. Communityprograms initiated include (1) the Adopt A Sister Program, which assists black women whocannot afford the cost of a mammogram; (2) acommittee on understanding the health caresystem, which helps women negotiateregulations and use of health care providers; (3)a training committee, which recruits and trainsadditional advisors; (4) a support group forblack women with diagnoses of breast cancer;and (5) a speakers bureau, which has produceda 10 minute videotape, brochure, and tee shirtsas community education materials.3 figures,5 tables, 8 references. (CP9300519)092Tailoring Lay Health Worker Interventionsfor Diverse Cultures: Lessons LearnedFrom Vietnamese and LatinaCommunities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Bird, J.A.; Otero Sabogal, R.; Ha,N.; McPhee, S.J.Source:Health Education Quarterly.23(Supplement):S105 S122, December 1996.Abstract: The authors discuss twointerventions in which indigenous lay healthworkers promoted the early detection of breastand cervical cancer in selected Vietnamese andHispanic community members in SanFrancisco, California. The Vietnamese programis called Sue Khoe La Vang! (Health is Gold!);the Hispanic program is called En AccionContra El Cancer (In Action Against Cancer).The interventions were developed andconducted as part of a National Cancer Instituteprogram project, Pathways To Early CancerDetection in Four Ethnic Groups. TheVietnamese project's design includedrecruitment of 10 indigenous lay healthworkers, to be known as neighborhood leaders(NL's), and 30 neighborhood leader assistants(NLA's). Each NL was to conduct 24prevention and early detection educationalevents for women in her community (6 ongeneral prevention, 9 on cervical cancer, and 9on breast cancer). The NLA's recruitedhostesses, recorded the events, andadministered a brief participant survey. By theend of the first year of the project, 9 active and2 inactive NL's and 22 active NLA's had beenrecruited. By the end of the second full year, ofthe 15 NL's who had been trained, 9 were stillactive; 60 NLA's had been recruited, and 24remained active. The program planners foundthat the Vietnamese women were reluctant toinvite participants to share social activities intheir homes, because scheduled socialgatherings in Vietnamese culture tend to occuraround special religious or family events.However, once at the presentations, mostwomen said they were glad they had attended.Cash incentives to hostesses and participantswere effective in recruitment, since most of thetargeted women lived below the poverty line.The Hispanic project included both multimediaand interpersonal interventions. The NLA'swere used as role models in the former, andpeer networkers and promoters in the latter. TheNLA's presented testimonials on local Spanish language media to stimulate and reinforcepositive behavior changes and attitudes aboutearly cancer prevention and detection. Peernetworkers and promoters were expected toparticipate in community events anddisseminate information. The peer networkersand promoters received small incentivestipends. During the first 9 months of theproject, 147 networkers, 68 promoters, and 140role models were recruited.In contrast with theVietnamese NLA's, the Hispanic NLA'saccomplished their work in the context of61Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsdiverse social networks. Family likerelationships developed among and between thestaff and participating women. The authorsconclude that the NLA's were effective changeagents and filled a unique and essential functionas mediators between the professional staff andthe community. 67 references. (CP9700116)093Urban Church and Cancer Control: ASource of Social Influence in MinorityCommunities.Form:Journal article.Authors:Davis, D.T.; Bustamante, A.; Brown,C.P.; Wolde Tsadik, G.; Savage, E.W.; Cheng,X.; Howland, L.Source:Public Health Reports.109(4):500 506, July August 1994.Abstract: Researchers examined the efficiencyof a church based model of social influence inimproving access to, and participation of,underserved minority women in a cervicalcancer control program. To participate in thestudy, researchers selected 24 churches,stratified by faith tradition, from Los Angeles,California. These churches had responded to aletter offering an opportunity to participate inDrew University's cervical cancer controlprogram. Approximately 30 to 150 womenfrom each church were eligible to participate inthe study.Pastoral commitment to the churchrole in the program was secured and a layhealth leader from each congregation wasselected. Clergy from the 24 churches selected atotal of 30 lay health leaders; of these, 97percent participated in two training sessions.The program consisted of two primarycomponents:education and screening. A totalof 1,012 women aged 21 to 89 attendededucational sessions on cervical cancer as partof the program, and lay health leaders targeted44 percent of these women for screeningbecause they either had not had a Papanicolaou(Pap) smear test within the past 2 years or hadnever been screened. Black women were 6.6times more likely than Hispanics to have beenscreened in the past 2 years. Hispanic womenwere 4.2 times more likely than AfricanAmericans never to have had a Pap test or tohave not been tested in 3 or more years. Mostof the women screened were between ages 21and 39. A total of 52 percent of the churchescontinued the cancer prevention campaign for atleast 2 years following the end of the programperiod. 4 tables, 13 references. (CP9500437)094Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleII: Cancer.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 104 pages,1997.Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module II: Cancer is the second in a series ofsix modules designed for trainers of healthadvisors. The adaptable curriculum in eachmodule can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,objectives, timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.62CancerThis second module was intended to teachhealth advisors about cancer, and enable themto support women in their community who havebeen diagnosed with cancer. The five unitsprovide an overview of cancer, and details ofbreast, reproductive, lung and colon cancer.The overview discusses how cancer develops,the types of cancer, risk reduction, screening,treatment options, support, and coping. Each ofthe four types of cancer is discussed bydefinition, risk, protection, and treatment. Theimportance of regular screening and healthylifestyle habits is emphasized. The topic ofsupporting women who have been diagnosedwith cancer is also addressed. (HE9800123)63Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsCardiovascular Disease095Community Health Representatives: AValuable Resource for Providing CoronaryHeart Disease Health Education Activitiesfor Native Americans.Form:Journal article.Authors:Cleaver, V.L.; Ratcliff, R.; Rogers, B.Source:Health Education.20(6): 16 31,October/November 1989.Abstract: This historical overview focused onthe lifestyle and coronary heart disease (CHD)health status of Native Americans. Heartdisease is the leading cause of death amongNative Americans. The Community HealthRepresentative (CHR) was a paraprofessionalwithin the Native American community whoprovided health care, health promotion, anddisease prevention services. The communityhealth representative program staff selectedpersons with basic health and medical skills andtrained them as outreach workers in theirrespective communities. The Indian HealthService (IHS) improved the abilities of theseparaprofessionals as health educators to moreeffectively coordinate CHD primary preventionactivities in their respective communities withinOklahoma. A cardiovascular disease riskassessment and education program conducted ata CHR conference had two primary objectives:(1) to favorably influence the CHR's attitudetoward screening and cardiovascular healtheducation, and (2) to help CHR's understandthe long term beneficial implications to suchprograms. Sixty seven CHR's completed alltesting and the educational follow up. CHR'swere categorized by their relative risk fordeveloping CHD. The majority of CHR's had arelatively high risk for CHD for each of the riskfactors.1 table, 18 references. (HE9000232)096Community Health Worker: A Resourcefor Improved Health Care Delivery.Form:Journal article.Authors:Richter, R.W.; Bengen, B.;Alsup, P.A.; Bruun, B.; Kilcoyne, M.M.;Challenor, B.D.Source: American Journal of Public Health.64(11): 1056 1061, November 1974.Abstract: The Community Health WorkerTraining Program represented a majorcomponent of the Harlem (New York) RegionStroke Program, established in 1970 to screenfor, treat, and follow up persons withhypertension, stroke, and related diseases. Thetraining program was designed to create a newentry level health position for inner cityresidents who show potential for contributing tohealth care delivery but who have not be able touse their abilities within a traditional healthstructure. Twenty one trainees were chosen forthe first 6 month training program, whichintegrated didactic and clinical teaching,emphasizing pathogenesis and treatment ofstroke, hypertension, and related diseases.Most of the trainees had completed high school,had reading levels of 10th grade and above, andhad scores of 9th grade or above in problem solving and math skills; most had little previousexposure to the health field; a large percentagehad records of past social, personal, or familyproblems. Fourteen trainees successfullycompleted the 6 month program and wereplaced in health worker positions in specialtiessuch as hypertension unit assistant and stroke65Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsunit follow up workers, social service caseworkassistant, and EEG technician trainee. Theauthors conclude that training programs and jobroles for community health workers need to belegitimized and standardized to overcomepresent fragmentation of programs and toensure career mobility among allied healthworkers. Academic accreditation of trainingprograms and their sponsorship by municipal,regional, or statewide health agencies are twocritical prerequisites for these goals.1 table,1 8 references . (HE940 1 207)097Emergency Department Detection andFollow Up of High Blood Pressure.Form:Journal article.Authors: Bone, L.R.; Mamon, J.; Levine,D.M.; Walrath, J.M.; Nanda, J.; Gurley, H.;Noji, E.K.; Ward, E.Source: American Journal of EmergencyMedicine.7(1): 16 20, January 1989.Abstract:Increasing numbers of people live inmedically underserviced urban areas and usehospital emergency departments (ED's) fortheir medical care. The ED's are reexaminingtheir role to be more responsive to the health care problems of the populations they serve.Ina study conducted at the Adult EmergencyDepartment of The Johns Hopkins Hospitalover a 2 year period, chronic high bloodpressure was used to measure the expanded roleof the ED because of its prevalence and cost topoor urban communities.Community healthworkers provided three services to supplementhealth providers' routine efforts in high bloodpressure detection, treatment, and follow up:(1) blood pressure and pulse measurements andrisk reduction counseling; (2) telephonepreappointment reminders; and (3) recontact ofpatients failing to show for their ED follow upvisits.Researchers indicate that communityhealth workers are a useful resource forenhancing detection, referral, and follow up ofhigh blood pressure. These paraprofessionalscan improve appointment keeping and can beuseful in assisting in screening and counselingfor chronic conditions within the ED.1 figure,21 references. (HE9000013)098Example of a Community Model forComprehensive Stroke Services: TheHarlem Regional Stroke Program.Form:Journal article.Authors:Richter, R.W.; Bengen, B.; Bruun,B.; Kilcoyne, M.; Alsup, P.A.; Shafer, S.Q.;Brown, R.H.; Brust, J.; Dorset, V.E.Source:Stroke.5(1): 135 144, January February 1974.Abstract:In response to the particularly highprevalence of stroke and hypertension amongpredominantly black populations, healthprofessionals and community leadersestablished the Harlem Regional StrokeProgram in 1970 to develop a model that mightbe replicated widely and raise awareness of theimportance of broad scale health maintenanceand early detection of hypertension and stroke.The program established comprehensiveservices for the care of those with stroke andprestroke conditions and served as a unifyingforce in regional health care by bringing about aclose working relationship among diversehealth professionals and community members.Program goals included (1) interdisciplinarycollaboration among providers and consumers,(2) creation of a stroke unit, (3) strokeprevention through community outreach andeducation, and (4) community health workertraining program. Stroke program patients wereadmitted primarily through Harlem Hospital'semergency room and, once the diagnosis ofstroke was confirmed, were enrolled in the66Cardiovascular DiseaseStroke Program through the NeurologyConsultation Service. From the time ofadmission and continuing up to 3 years afterdischarge, the patient's neurological andfunctional status was evaluated according to theprotocol. The Community Outreach componentof the Stroke Program, initiated in 1971,implemented a screening program to detect thecommunity's high risk population forhypertension and stroke and a public healtheducation program to increase the community'sacceptance and follow up to early detection andprevention efforts. A registered nurse andseveral full time community health workerstrained specifically for the program manage thecommunity outreach portion of the program.The most important medical principle of theStroke Program has been that to make apermanent impact in the reduction of morbidityand mortality, a program must include carefullyplanned systems of risk factor treatment andlong term follow up. 4 figures,1 table,9 references . (HE97003 1 9)099Guidelines for African American Church Based Health Promotion.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: South CarolinaDepartment of Health and EnvironmentalControl.Source:Columbia, SC, South CarolinaDepartment of Health and EnvironmentalControl, 37 p., n.d.manual was developed to support church effortsto improve the health status of the members oftheir congregations and to provide suggestedstrategies for dealing with specific healthconcerns that affect the African Americanpopulation. Designed to be used by acommittee or team of church members, themanual seeks to (1) increase the community'sawareness of health needs and address possiblesolutions to health problems, (2) identify healthneeds of the congregation and interest inchanging health related behavior, (3) plan acareful strategy to improve the health of thecongregation, (4) measure results, and (5)provide information and assistance inidentifying and using local health resources.The first chapter of the manual gives anoverview of the health status of AfricanAmericans and asserts that efforts withinchurch based programs could help to improvethe health of African Americans.Section1addresses (1) getting organized, (2) gettingstarted, (3) designing the program, (4) startingthe program, and (5) evaluating the program.Section 2 includes a discussion of stroke andhypertension. South Carolina has the nation'shighest death rate from stroke, and the diseaseclaims twice as many lives of AfricanAmericans than any other race. This manualsuggests developing a program targeting strokeprevention in an effort to reduce these statistics.The appendix offers an example of a needs andinterest survey, an example of a programinterest questionnaire, and a detailed list ofmonthly health observances. (HE9700616)Abstract: The Center for Health Promotionand the Office of Minority Health of the SouthCarolina Department of Health andEnvironmental Control developed Guidelinesfor African American Church Based HealthPromotion as the second of a two partpublication on health promotion and the AfricanAmerican church or place of worship. The67Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors100Impact of a Planned Health EducationApproach on the Control of Hypertensionin a High Risk Population.Form:Journal article.Authors:Levine, D.M.; Bone, L.Source:Journal of Human Hypertension.4(4):3 17 321, August 1990.Abstract:Researchers investigated the effectsof disseminating a planned educationalapproach, found to be successful in a definedpatient population, to an East Baltimorecommunity of 80,000 persons with thedemonstrated highest risk of uncontrolledhypertension and premature morbidity andmortality from this risk factor in Maryland.The educational behavioral model used forplanning, intervention, and evaluation isdeveloped from educational and behavioraltherapy and from the concepts of activeparticipation and learning, behavioralreinforcement, self efficacy, and social support.The program consisted of an exit interviewreinforcing and clarifying treatmentrecommendations, a family education andsupport component, and small group sessions toenhance patient activation and motivation. Theprogram was evaluated by a randomized controltrial in 400 patients. The experience,methodology, and approach of this phase wasthen applied to a population level. Thepopulation selected was from a low incomecommunity that was primarily black (95percent). The majority of families were onmedical assistance and had an averageeducational level of 10 years of formalschooling. Within this population, the programfocused on males aged 18 to 49 years. Theprogram, directed and coordinated by aCommunity Provider Task Force, consisted of acombination of targeted screenings, outreach,and follow up strategies to improveidentification of individuals with hypertension,enhance entrance into and encourage continuityof care, decrease drop out rates and bring thosewho had discontinued treatment back into care,and improve adherence to prescribed treatmentand blood pressure control. The participationof community health workers (CHW's) was acentral component of the program. The CHW'swere persons with no previous health trainingbut who were already involved in communityservices. The CHW's received trainingaccording to the American Heart Associationguidelines to provide blood pressure screening,educational counseling, monitoring, follow up,and outreach services. Emphasis was given toindividuals from the hospital emergency room,which provides a disproportionate amount ofhealth care for all adults in East Baltimore.Community surveys have shown that thepercentage of individuals with hypertensionwho were aware of their condition increasedfrom 65 percent in 1978 to 80 percent in 1986,and more than 90 percent of the population hadtheir blood pressure checked yearly. Thepercentage of persons receiving treatmentincreased from 45 percent to 66 percent, andthose persons achieved adequate blood pressurecontrol rose from 32 to 50 percent. The resultsindicated that this planned health educationapproach was successful in significantlyimproving the control of hypertension in a high risk population. The use of CHW's isparticularly relevant for high risk groups, suchas young black males, who are least likely to bein a health care system, be diagnosed, bereceiving treatment, or be under control. Theuse of CHW's to provide both targetedscreenings and enhanced referral and follow upmechanisms is essential to enhancing diagnosis,treatment, and adequate control. The authorssuggest further training of CHW's to addressmore specific risk factors such as obesity,diabetes, alcoholism, smoking, and lack of a68Cardiovascular Diseasereinforcing support structure.1 figure, 5 tables,6 references. (HE9700063)101Improving Hypertension Detection andReferral in an Ambulatory Setting.Form:Journal article.Authors:Gillum, R.F.; Solomon, H.S.; Kranz,P.; Boepple, P.; Creighton, M.Source: Archives of Internal Medicine.138(5):700 703,May 1978.Abstract:Investigators evaluated the extent towhich patient appointment keeping for follow up care can be improved by a paraprofessionalhealth aide, whether the aide's efforts canimprove hypertension detection in ambulatorysettings within an urban teaching hospital, and(3) whether such an intervention is costeffective. They also present the yield oftreatable hypertension, based on initial diastolicblood pressure. A paraprofessional aideworking in ambulatory clinics of an urbanteaching hospital in Boston encouraged nursesto take and record patients' blood pressures andthen contacted patients who had elevated bloodpressures who were not referred for treatmentby clinic staff or who did not return for followup. Blood pressure recording by clinic staffincreased during the intervention from 54percent to 68 percent of patients. Appointmentkeeping increased with intervention from 13 to73 percent of those eligible for referral. Theyield of hypertensive patients initiatingtreatment management increased from a controllevel of 7 to 22 percent of total patients eligiblefor referral. The authors conclude that arelatively inexpensive and easy opportunity forscreening large numbers of people inambulatory clinics is being neglected. A healthaide can be effective in improving detection andreferral of hypertensive patients at low cost.3 figures,1 table, 12 references. (HE9700073)102Improving Referral Compliance AfterPublic Cholesterol Screening.Form:Journal article.Authors: Maiman, L.A.; Hildreth, N.G.;Cox, C; Greenland, P.Source: American Journal of Public Health.82(6):804 809, June 1992.Abstract:Researchers examined whetherhealth professional counselors at cholesterolscreening and follow up interventions affectcompliance with referral for retesting anddiagnosis.Researchers also assessed thecontributions of sociodemographiccharacteristics, coronary heart disease riskfactors, and health motivations. At thescreening, health professionals and laycommunicators referred participants meetingage specific criteria for moderate or high riskcholesterol levels to a physician for retestingand diagnosis.Initially, each participantreceived counseling from a health professionalor lay communicator; all individuals without aregular source of medical care received a list ofprimary care physicians who were acceptingnew patients. After each screening shift,researchers randomly assigned 2,109participants to a coupon offer group, referralreminder letter group, or control group. Beforereceiving their test result, each participantcompleted a self administered questionnaire atscreening. Five months later, researchersconducted telephone interviews with 1,975participants. The questionnaire and interviewinquired about general health information,cholesterol specific items, and the physicianvisit.Results showed that physician visit ratesyielded no professional or lay differences. Forpatients with no medical history, the behavioralinterventions were effective compared withcontrols (the coupon yielded 60.7 percent andthe reminder letter yielded 57.7 percent69Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsresponses versus control response of 46.1percent). With professional counseling, only thecoupon was effective; for lay counseling, bothcoupon and reminder yielded higher visit rates.When adjustments were made forsociodemographics, heart disease risk factors,and health perceptions, the intervention effectsremained. The results suggest that theinfluence of the behavioral interventionsdepends on cholesterol history andcommunicator type. For those with newlyidentified cholesterol elevations, both types offollow up yielded better physician visit ratesthan no follow up. 4 tables, 32 references.(HE9201240)103Narrowing the Gap in Health Status ofMinority Populations: A Community Academic Medical Center Partnership.Form:Journal article.Authors: Levine, D.M.; Becker, D.M.;Bone, L.R.Source: American Journal of PreventiveMedicine.8(5):3 19 323, September October1992.Abstract: Program developers used six stepsto develop a joint, community based,coordinated program between a high riskAfrican American population in Baltimore,Maryland and Johns Hopkins UniversityMedical Institutions. The steps were (1)selecting a target minority population; (2)developing a coordinated community andmedical care system task force to direct theprogram; (3) assessing current patterns ofpreventable or controllable premature morbidityand mortality; (4) selecting specific health andbehavioral priorities to address and goals toachieve; (5) designing intervention andevaluation methods, including interventionstrategies that provide training and skillbuilding for the population served; and (6)planning for long term effectiveness andsustainability based on the community providercollaboration model. The program was basedon a diagnostic, intervention, and evaluationmodel to influence behavioral change andenhance health status. There were three phasesof the program: initial development (1974 to1979), the second phase (1979 to 1987), and thethird phase (1987 and beyond). The initialphase consisted of a highly successful patient based intervention focusing on the care andcontrol of hypertensive vascular disease in thecommunity. This experience was thendisseminated into a community based publichealth program for the second phase. A keyfeature of the second phase was the training ofcommunity residents to provide outreach,linkage, and monitoring services, includingscreening and counseling for high bloodpressure, weight control, and cessation ofsmoking and excessive alcohol consumption.Community health workers significantlyimproved identification and control ofhypertension in the population; positive effectsof the workers were enhanced linkage,continuity of care, and control of hypertension.The third phase of the program consisted of achurch based, multiple risk factor programentitled "Heart, Body and Soul," part of whichfocused specifically on smoking cessation.Church ministers and members were trained tolead small groups and to administer churchwideactivities and health fairs. This community based program has demonstrated significanteffects in decreasing morbidity and mortalityand in enhancing the health status of a high riskurban African American population.(HE9300355)70Cardiovascular Disease104Role of Community Volunteers in HealthInterventions: A Hypertension Screeningand Follow Up Program.Form:Journal Article.Authors: Cooke, C.J.; Meyers, A.Source: American Journal of Public Health.73(2): 193 194, February 1983.Abstract: The use of community volunteers inhealth screening programs was evaluated in ahypertension screening and follow up program.Volunteers from a resident health committee inan apartment complex community carried outdoor to door blood pressure screening ofresidents. The results of that screening werecompared with those from a community wherea resident health committee conducted central site screenings and with those of a communitywhere nonresident researchers staffed a centralscreening site. Door to door screening bycommunity volunteers was significantly moreeffective than the two central site screeningmethods, which did not differ from each other.Follow up measures increased the number ofhypertensive persons who reported seekingtreatment by 100 percent. The failure to finddifferences between the two central siteprograms suggests that community organizationdid not contribute to screening effectiveness. Aprevious study that employed resident door to door screeners without prior communityorganizing screened fewer residents, suggestingan interaction between community organizationand door to door screening.3 references.(HE8300154)105Role of Parents and Older Peers in School Based Cardiovascular PreventionPrograms:Implications for ProgramDevelopment.Form:Journal article.Authors: Cohen, R.Y.; Felix, M.;Brownell, K.D.Source:Health Education Quarterly.16(2):245 253, Summer 1989.Abstract: The authors compared theeffectiveness of peer led interventions fornutrition, blood pressure education, andsmoking prevention with interventions led byclassroom teachers. Before implementation ofthe intervention programs, students in grades 5 8 completed a comprehensive health survey.Their parents completed a telephone survey ofthe same information; data came from 1,051households. The survey instruments askedabout the children's health habits, such assmoking, exercise, dieting, and fast foodconsumption, and about family discussions ofhealth related topics. The authors recruited the76 older peer leaders from the local highschool, where a peer counseling program wasalready in place. All peer counselorsparticipated in a 4 day training during thesummer to learn general helping skills and thecurriculum they would be teaching. Four orfive older peer leaders each taught a class ofapproximately 30 students.Students in grade 5participated in the nutrition program (233),those in grade 6 participated in the bloodpressure program (325), and students in grade 7participated in the smoking prevention program(328). Each of the peer led interventionsconsisted of four 45 minute classroom sessionsand focused on the influence of parents as rolemodels. Activities included homeworkassignments that parents and childrencompleted together, discussions by the children71Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsabout their parents' behavior, and risk factorinformation mailed to the parents.Students inthe teacher led intervention received identicalinformation, although without the small groupdiscussions and without the additional focus onparents. Analysis of preintervention andpostintervention survey data indicated that bothinterventions successfully increasedparticipants' behavior toward nutrition andblood pressure (measured1 year after theinterventions). The parent child survey showedreasonable agreement between parents andchildren for reports of the child's exercise, diet,and fast food consumption, but pooreragreement for smoking and perceptions offamily interaction. The authors conclude thatthe findings provide preliminary evidence thatolder peer led programs for the adoption ofhealthy behaviors can be effective.1 table,20 references. (SA9600401)106Women's Wellness Sourcebook: ModuleIII: Heart Disease and Stroke.Form: Teaching guide.Authors:Jackson, T. ed.; Lasco, M.L. ed.;Calley, S.; Henning, M.; Linton, K.; Loosli, M.;Tamasabi, S.; Rivett, S.Source:Sterling, VA, INMED, 94 pages, 1997.objectives, a timetable, an outline of the topicscovered, a list of materials needed, informationon advance preparation needed, and the trainer'snotes. The trainer's notes contain guidance toeach activity, points to emphasize, training tipsand techniques, and summary suggestions.This module introduces health advisors to thetopics in four units. Unit1 gives anintroduction to heart disease, how the heartworks, the symptoms of heart disease, anddiagnosing heart disease. Unit 2 discussesprotecting against heart disease by reducing therisk of heart disease, lowering the risk of highblood pressure, cholesterol, smoking, andphysical activity. Coronary artery disease andheart attack is covered in Unit 3, including thetopics of coronary artery disease, what a heartattack is, how to recognize a heart attack, whatto do when you think you are having a heartattack, and support and coping. Unit 4discusses the topic of stroke, including what astroke is, minimizing risk factors for strokes,what happens at the hospital, and recovery aftera stroke. A list of recommended resources isprovided at the end of the module.(HE9800124)Abstract: Women's Wellness Sourcebook:Module III:Heart Disease and Stroke is one ofa series of six modules designed for trainers ofHealth Advisors. The adaptable curriculum ineach module can be used independently or incombination with other modules. The trainingis based on the shared learning experiencemodel, requiring the active involvement andparticipation of trainees. The training activitieshelp participants identify their strengths, sharetheir experiences, and combine efforts to createan effective community health program. Eachunit in the module contains an overview,72Chronic Diseases and Risk FactorsDiabetes107Community Based, Culturally SensitiveEducation and Group SupportIntervention for Mexican Americans WithNIDDM: A Pilot Study of Efficacy.Form:Journal article.Authors: Brown, S.A.; Hanis, C.L.Source:Diabetes Educator.21(3):203 210,May June 1995.Abstract:Researchers conducted a pilot study,the Rio Grande Valley Diabetes EducationStudy, to determine the feasibility of providinga diabetes patient education and group supportintervention directed by a Mexican Americanclinical nurse specialist, dietitian, andcommunity worker. Five persons with diabeteswere selected from a longitudinal study andasked to participate in the intervention. Theywere over age 35 years, had noninsulindependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM), hadtaken insulin for at least1 year in the past, andwere willing to participate in the 9 weekintervention. Each participant identified afamily member or close friend who wouldparticipate in the sessions as a support person.The weekly 2 hour educational sessionsincluded instruction on nutrition, self blood glucose monitoring, exercise, and other diabetesself management topics. Group discussion wasaided by the use of Spanish languagevideotapes developed for a Mexicancommunity. Other activities included visiting alocal grocery store to learn to read and interpretfood labels, food demonstrations based onMexican American food preferences, andsharing of healthy recipes. The community layworker led a support group session held afterthe completion of the educational portion of theprogram. Data on demographic and outcomevariables were collected at baseline, andoutcome data were collected 3 months after theprogram ended. Relevant outcome variablesincluded knowledge of diabetes, healthbehaviors, weight, and indexes of metaboliccontrol such as fasting blood sugar andglycosylated hemoglobin. Researchersconducted comparisons of preintervention andpostintervention measures, using the Wilcoxinsigned rank test. For all five participants,statistically significant improvements occurredin glycosylated hemoglobin levels, fastingblood sugar levels, and knowledge of diabetesself management.Researchers advised that,because of the small sample size and otherlimitations, these data must be interpretedcautiously. However, researchers concluded thatthe study demonstrated the feasibility ofproviding an acceptable intervention in thisMexican American community. 4 tables,29 references. (HE9600778)108Training Outreach Workers to ServeAmerican Indian Elders With VisualImpairment and Diabetes.Form:Journal article.Author:Orr, A.L.Source:Journal of Visual Impairment andBlindness.87(9):336 340, November 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the training ofoutreach workers to serve American Indianelders with visual impairment and diabetes.The incidence of blindness and visualimpairment resulting from diabetic retinopathyis higher among American Indians than in theoverall population. Additionally, the number73Chronic Diseases and Risk Factorsand life expectancy of American Indian eldershave increased consistently over the past 40years, so that a larger portion of this populationare living many more years as blind or