1 WINTHROP UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL COMMUNITY HEALTH NEEDS ASSESSMENT 2016 Winthrop University Hospital 259 First Street Mineola, NY 11501 www.winthrop.org 1 866 WINTHROP Adopted by the Board of Directors November 8, 2016 2 INTRODUCTION A provision of the Affordable Care Act requires that not for profit hospitals conduct and publish a Community Health Needs Assessment (CHNA) once every three years to assess community needs and adopt an Implementation Strategy to meet those needs. Progress on addressing these needs is reported annually through the IRS Schedule H Form 990. To complete the CHNA and produce the most effective assessment possible, Winthrop University Hospital participated in the collaborative assessment that was conducted by The Long Island Population Health Improvement Program (LIPHIP). The core of the LIPHIP is an extensive workgroup of committed partners who work together to improve the health of all Long Islanders. This workgroup, called the Long Island Health Collaborative (LIHC), consists of the two county health departments, all hospitals on Long Island, physician leaders, representatives from nursing and mid level provider associations, dozens of community based health and social service organizations, academic institutions, health plans, local municipalities, and many other sectors. The LIHC convenes on a monthly basis and is utilizing the collective impact model, the structured approach for bringing people and groups in a community together to achieve social change. In 2015, the Long Island Health Collaborative was awarded the Population Health Improvement program (PHIP) grant by the New York State Department of Health. The PHIP is a data driven entity, pledged to pursue the New York State of Health’s Prevention Agenda, making the program a natural driver for the Community Health Needs Assessment cycle. For information about the LIHC and a list of members, please visit www.lihealthcollab.org/ Winthrop has been extensively involved in this initiative since its inception in 2013. The following report provides insight into the Winthrop University Hospital community, the assessment process, the findings for Nassau County, and a prioritization of the significant health needs for Winthrop’s service area. Please note that although community members had the opportunity to provide written comments on our 2013 CHNA through our website or by calling our office, none were provided. I. COMMUNITY SERVED Winthrop’s service area is defined geographically and by patient population. The Hospital’s primary/core service area has historically been Nassau County, specifically, Core Areas A, B, and 3 C (See map below). Based on an analysis of our patient population, 80. of discharges come from these areas (see table 1). The assessment concentrated on our primary service area. Our secondary service area, Suffolk County and Eastern Queens, respectively, Areas D and E, is considered in the Hospital’s strategic planning process for purposes of establishing new programs and services, but was not included in the assessment. Blue: Core A; Green: Core B; Pink: Core C; Purple: Core D; Yellow: Core E Table 1 Discharge Data 2015 (excluding normal newborns) Core Areas Total % of Total A 16,984 53. B 7,144 22. C 1,215 3. Nassau Total 25,343 80. D 1,671 5. E 455 1. Other 4,084 12. TOTAL 31,724 Within Core Areas A, B and C, there are “select communities,” i.e., communities that experience health disparities. They include Elmont (11003), Inwood (11096), Freeport (11520), Glen Cove (11542), Uniondale (11553), Long Beach (11561, and Roosevelt (11575), Hempstead (11550) 4 and Westbury (11590). Thirty five percent of our patients from Core Areas A, B & C (see Table 2) come from select communities, with 27. from Core Area A alone. Significant attention was paid to communities with health disparities. Table 2 Discharge Data 2015 Select Communities (excluding normal newborns) Core Areas Total Select Communities % of Total Select Communities WUH Total % of WUH Total Select Communities A 7,000 78. 16,984 27. B 1,657 18. 7,144 6. C 249 2. 1,215 . TOTAL 8,906 25,343 NASSAU COUNTY AN OVERVIEW Nassau County is unique in that it presents complex polarity, representing a wide range of both healthy and sick community members from opposite ends of the health continuum. Data presented within this report will demonstrate the existence of vast health disparities stemming from a wide range of socioeconomic factors. Our findings indicate the reality of the linkage of health disparities to a variety of social factors including race, ethnicity, gender, language, age, disabilities, and financial security, among others. Elimination of such disparities is a priority throughout the Long Island region, as the bridging of gaps and services will ultimately improve health outcomes and quality of life for community members. DEMOGRAPHICS The United States Census Bureau American Fact Finder estimates Nassau County’s population as of July 1, 2015, as 1,361,350 people. The median age of residents is 41.3; 90. are high school graduates or have achieved higher education, and the median household income is $98,401, with an estimated 6. living below poverty level.1 The unemployment rate is 4., compared with the New York State ranking of 6. an improvement of approximately 1 http://factfinder.census.gov/faces/nav/jsf/pages/community_facts.xhtml 5 from 2013. Race is reported as: White alone, 63.; Hispanic or Latino of any race, 15.; Black or African American, 10.; and approximately 8. are Asian. 2 According to data culled by the NYS DSRIP project in 2016, approximately 223,494 individuals are unique Medicaid enrollees. Of these, are Hispanic; are white; are black and are Asian/Pacific Islanders. The Hispanic population comprises the largest group of Medicaid enrollees in Nassau County, specifically females between the ages of 1 71 and 18 44.3 A “snapshot” of Nassau County from estimated 2016 data from County Health Ranking and Roadmaps from the University of Wisconsin Population Health Institute factors that drive health provides the following information. Nassau County is ranked as number 1 in New York State for Health Factors and number 2 in Health Outcomes. This is an improvement from our 2013 CHNA which reported health outcomes at number 8. Health Behaviors are ranked at 2, an improvement from number 3. Approximately of the population is uninsured, compared to in NYS; this is an improvement from reported in 2013. Primary care physician rates continue to be solid about 680 patients to one doctor, compared to 1,200 patients to one doctor in NYS.4 II. THE COMMUNITY HEALTH NEEDS ASSESSMENT PROCESS The following is a summary of the assessment process that was conducted by the Long Island Population Health Improvement Program (LIPHIP). The assessment was conducted throughout both Nassau and Suffolk counties. For the purposes of this report, we will only include data from Nassau County. Complete results of the assessment can be found at www.lihealthcollab.org/data resources.aspx The LIPHIP, which led the assessment, is organized by the Nassau Suffolk Hospital Council (NSHC), the membership association for all hospitals on Long Island. The staff is comprised of a Senior Director, Program Manager, Data Analyst, and Communications Specialist. This team provided administration, consensus building, collection, reporting and analysis of data. Public health officials from the Nassau County Department of Health and Suffolk County Department of Health, along with representatives from all hospitals located on Long Island, appointed the LIPHIP as the workgroup lead for collecting data to propel the Community Health Needs Assessment Cycle 2016 2018. The strategy for the assessment was developed by the following individuals who were Advisory Committee Members and Program Facilitators:  Harriet Gourdine Adams, Chief Officer for Care Coordination, Tri Care Systems DBA LIAAC 2 http://factfinder.census.gov/faces/tableservices/jsf/pages/productview.xhtml?src=CF 3 Nassau Queens PPS Community Need Assessment, December 2014, pg. 3 4 http://www.countyhealthrankings.org/app/new york/2016/rankings/nassau/county/outcomes/overall/snapshot 6  Celina Cabello, Epidemiologist, Nassau County Department of Health  Laurel Janssen Breen*, Associate Professor, Assistant Chair, Department of Nursing, St. Joseph’s College  Tavora Buchman, Director, Quality Improvement, Epidemiology and Research, Director, Tuberculosis Control, Nassau County Department of Health  Elizabeth Cohn, Director, Center for Health Innovation, Adelphi University  Nancy Copperman, Assistant Vice President, Public Health and Community Partnerships, Strategic Planning, Northwell Health, Nassau Queens PPS  Linda Efferen, Medical Director, Suffolk Care Collaborative  Amy Hammock*, Assistant Professor, Department of Family, Population and Preventative Medicine, Stony Brook Medicine  Chris Hendriks, Vice President, Public & External Affairs, Catholic Health Services of Long Island  Grace Kelly Mc Govern, Public Relations Director, Suffolk County Department of Health  John J. Perkins Jr. EPIC Physician Co Champion, St. Charles Hospital Rehabilitation Liaison  Matt Tannenbaum, Nutrition Intern, Northwell Health  Karen Tripmacher, Director, Community Education and Health Benefit, Winthrop University Hospital  Althea Williams, Senior Manager, Provider and Community Engagement, Suffolk Care Collaborative LIHC member organizations, Adelphi University and St. Joseph’s College provided meeting space and served as the host for the summit events for community based organizations. * Amy Hammock and Laurel Janssen Breen hold expertise in facilitation skills and qualitative analysis, serving as valuable key leaders during the facilitator training for LIHC members. Primary data sources collected and analyzed include the Long Island Community Health Assessment Survey, qualitative data from the Nassau County Community Based Organization Summit Event, and the LIHC Wellness survey. Secondary, publicly available data sets have been reviewed to determine change in health status and emerging issues within Nassau County. Sources of secondary data include: Statewide Planning and Research Cooperative System (SPARCS), New York State Prevention Agenda dashboard, County Health Rankings, Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), NYS Cancer Registry, and New York State Vital Statistics. INITIAL DATA FINDINGS Prevention Quality Indicators Prevention Quality Indicators (PQI), are defined by the Agency for Health Research and Quality* (AHRQ) and can be useful when examining preventable admissions. Using SPARCS data, the LIPHIP created a visual representation of preventable admissions related to Chronic Disease at the zip code level. 7 PQI 92 is defined as a composite of chronic conditions per 100,000 adult population. Conditions, identified by ICD 9 code, included in PQI 92 are: Short and long term complications, Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease, Asthma, Hypertension, Heart Failure, Angina, Uncontrolled Diabetes and Lower Extremity Amputations among patients with Diabetes. The above map demonstrates the zip codes in Nassau County representing the most significant number of preventable cases per 100,000 adult population.* Quintile 5 represents 896.1 1239.0 per 100,000 adult cases, and can be identified by dark red coloring. This quintile demonstrates within which zip codes the largest pockets of potentially preventable hospital visits related to chronic disease fall. As displayed within the PQI Chronic Composite for Nassau County, there is notable occurrence of Chronic Disease among a majority of communities, particularly those connected to low socioeconomic status. These zip codes are 11550 (Hempstead) and 11590 (Westbury), two communities within Winthrop’s Core Service Area A that experience health disparities. *Source: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality Prevention Indicators/www.qualityindicators.ahrq.gov/modeules/pqu_resources.aspx) Prevention Agenda Dashboard The Prevention Agenda 2013 2018 is New York State’s Health Improvement Plan designed to improve health outcomes and reduce health disparities within five public health priority areas: Chronic Disease Prevention, Healthy and Safe Environment, Prevention of HIV/STD, Vaccine 8 Preventable Disease and Health care Associated Infections, Promote Health Women, Infants and Children, and Promote Mental Health and Prevent Substance Abuse. The New York State Prevention Agenda Dashboard is an interactive visual presentation of the most recent Prevention Agenda tracking indicator data at state and county levels. It serves as a key source for monitoring progress that communities around the state have made with regard to meeting the Prevention Agenda 2018 objectives. Within the Dashboard, review of 2013 2014 NYS Expanded Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System demonstrates that 19. of adults in Nassau County are obese. Although obesity rates in Nassau are lower than New York State, obesity remains an issue that is closely related to chronic conditions including heart disease, stroke, type 2 diabetes, and other leading causes of preventable conditions highlighted above in PQI 92, the Chronic Disease Composite for Nassau County. III. COMMUNITY INPUT To collect input from community members and measure the community perspective as to the biggest health issues in Nassau County, the LIHC developed a regional survey called the Long Island Community Health Assessment Survey. It was translated into certified Spanish language and large print copies were available to those living with vision impairment. Distribution and promotion of this survey occurred throughout a wide range of social service locations including hospital websites and educational programs, social media outlets, doctor’s offices, health departments, libraries, schools, insurance enrollment sites, community based organizations, and more. These surveys were available online and in paper format. The survey is available in Appendix 1. The broad interests of the community are also reflected in the second part of the assessment which was accomplished qualitatively, through a facilitated summit of community based organizations (CBOs) that occurred on February 2, 2016. Representatives from CBOs shared valuable information about the health issues faced by their clients, barriers to care and other issues recognized as the social determinants of health citing poverty, housing, job losses and food insecurities as problematic. The community based organizations who participated in the summit are listed under the Summit Event description in the Methodology section below. METHODOLOGY INDIVIDUAL SURVEYS Surveys were distributed by LIHC members and were collected between January and November 1, 2016. Nassau County had a total of 2,335 respondents, which means our responses have a 9 confidence level of and a confidence interval of 2.03. We had a response of 672 surveys from select communities, meaning a confidence interval of 3.78 with a confidence level of . These values are based on the 2010 census for Nassau County. The following is a brief description of survey demographics:  Gender Female, male  Household income over $75,000; 16. $50,000 $74,999; $20,000 $34,999; below $19,999; 9. $35,000 49,999  Age over 65; 55 64; 45 54; 35 44; 25 34; 18 24  self employed;  Insurance Insured; Uninsured  Race White/Caucasian (18. identified as Hispanic or Latino); African American; Asian, Multi racial*  Education College graduate or above; some college or technical school; high school graduate; some high school or below Surveys were distributed by paper and electronically through Survey Monkey to community members. The electronic version placed rules on certain questions; for questions 1 5 an individual could select 3 choices and each question was mandatory. Although the rules were written on the paper survey, people did not follow them. The paper surveys were sorted into a “rules” and “no rules” pile. The “rules” surveys were entered into the Survey Monkey collector while the “no rules” were entered into a separate, closed survey where any number of answers could be selected and others could be skipped. Analysis Results: 1. When asked what the biggest ongoing health concerns in the community where you live:  Nassau County Respondents felt that Cancer, Drug and Alcohol Abuse and Obesity/Weight Loss were the top three concerns. o In Nassau, these three choices represented of the total responses. o Select communities cited Cancer, Diabetes and Drug and Alcohol Abuse. This represented of the total responses. 2. When asked what the biggest ongoing health concerns for yourself:  Nassau County respondents felt that Heart Disease and Stroke, Cancer, and Obesity/Weight Loss were the top three concerns. 10 o In Nassau, these three choices represented roughly of the total responses. o Select communities cited obesity/weight loss, diabetes and Cancer as top concerns, accounting for of the total responses. 3. The next question sought to identify potential barriers that people face when getting medical treatment:  Nassau County respondents felt that No Insurance, being Unable to Pay Co pays or Deductibles, and Fear were the most significant barriers. o These choices received roughly of the total responses in Nassau.  Select communities identified No Insurance, being Unable to Pay Co pays or Deductibles, and being unable to understand the need to see a doctor as significant. This accounted for 54. of responses. 4. When asked what was most needed to improve the health of your community:  Healthier Food Choices, Clean Air & Water, and Weight Loss Programs were chosen by Nassau County community members, accounting for of the total responses. o Healthier food choices, Job Opportunities, and Clean Air & Water were top concerns for select communities, accounting for 38. of the total responses. 5. For the final question, people were asked what health screenings or education services are needed in your community:  Nassau County respondents felt that the Blood Pressure, Cancer, and Diabetes, services were most needed, representing of the total respondents. o Select communities cited Diabetes, Blood Pressure and Nutrition, representing of the responses. Questions 1 & 2 helped determine the highest area of concern for community residents. Chronic Disease was a highly rated in both Nassau County and the select communities, so this quickly identified as a significant health need. Questions 3, 4 & 5 addressed factors related to the social determinants of health, and were helpful in guiding the summit questions. SUMMIT EVENT 11 To measure professional expertise from representatives working directly within the community setting, the LIPHIP planned the Nassau County summit event during which qualitative data was collected. Representatives from a comprehensive network of organizations were invited to participate during the events. Participating organizations emphasized the importance of an opportunity to network and share expertise among counterpart agencies as a value added benefit during events. Summary of Event Details  Facilitated discussion format  NYS Prevention Agenda framework for project development and analysis  Included high priority concerns related to health equity, disparities and barriers to care  Primary data collection tool a script  Court reporters captured conversations  ATLAS TI qualitative Data software used to guide and structure analysis process Data collected during facilitated discussion summit events was analyzed, interpreted and is presented under the Summary of Findings section below. Aspects covered include identifying priority areas according to the New York State Department of Health Prevention Agenda 2013 2017, reoccurring themes outside of the Prevention Agenda parameters, health disparities, barriers to care, and novel recommendations for improving services and programs. Event Planning and Structure Two members of the Advisory Committee participated as key leaders, selected due to their extensive background in qualitative research and facilitation skills. These key leaders, Dr. Laurel Janssen Breen, Associate Professor, St. Joseph’s College and Amy Hammock, Assistant Professor, Stony Brook University, presented an interactive, hands on curriculum and training for LIHC members who volunteered to take the role of facilitators during the events. Seating assignment of participants at facilitated discussion tables was randomized, with seven to 12 participants seated at a table. After permission was granted by participants, they were guided through scripted facilitated discussion by a trained facilitator. Discussions were recorded and transcribed by certified court reporters. Data Collection Tool 12 A script for facilitators was developed and used as our primary data collection tool. Adapted from the Nassau County Department of Health’s Key Informant Interview script in 2013, this tool was revised to meet a facilitated discussion format. Questions were composed to evoke an inherent response at first and then expanded upon to encourage digging deeper to obtain a more focused response. Questions pertained to health problems and concerns, health disparities, barriers to care, available services, and opportunities for improvement. A copy of the script is available in Appendix 2. Court reporters were positioned at each table during the event to accurately capture conversations. Post event, transcripts were transcribed and provided in Microsoft Office Word document Format. The Nassau County Summit Event was hosted by Adelphi University, Garden City, NY, on February 2, 2016. The following is a list of organizations who participated in the summit. This list encompasses community based organizations who represent low income, minority populations or medically underserved individuals. Organization Title of Participating Representative Adelphi University, Health Studies, School of Education Garden City, NY 1. Program Director and Associate Professor, Health Studies 2. Assistant Professor Adelphi University, Breast Cancer Hotline and Support Program Garden City, NY 1. Director 2. Bilingual Outreach Coordinator American Red Cross New York, NY 1. Disaster Health Services Regional Advisor Angela’s House Hauppauge, NY 1. Supervisor of Case Management Coordinating Agency for Spanish Americans (CASA) Hempstead, NY 1. Administrative Aide Catholic Health Services of Long Island Catholic Home Care, Good Shepherd Hospice Farmingdale, NY 1. Account Manager Coloki Inc. The Freeport Trailer Merrick, NY 1. Executive Director Community Care HHS Hicksville, NY 1. Account Executive 2. Public Relations Representative Cornell Cooperative Extension Jericho, NY 1. Regional Program Director 2. Nutrition Educator (2) Docs for Tots Melville, NY 1. Project Director EAC Network Hempstead, NY 1. Division Director The Epilepsy Foundation of Long Island, a Division of EPIC Long Island East Meadow, NY 1. Community Education Coordinator Family and Children’s Association 1. Vice President and Chief Operating 13 Mineola, NY Officer 2. Assistant Vice President, Senior Programs 3. Assistant Vice President, Preventive Services Family First Home Companions Bohemia, NY 1. Director of Marketing Fidelis Care Westbury, NY 1. Community Relations Specialist Girls Incorporated of Long Island Deer Park, NY 1. Operations Manager Hispanic Counseling Center Hempstead, NY 1. Therapist LI Cares Hauppauge, NY 1. Nutrition Resource Manager 2. Chief Network Officer Life Trusts Cedarhurst, NY 1. Trust Outreach Long Island Crisis Center Bellmore, NY 1. Supervising Social Worker Memory & Music Mineola, NY 1. Northeast Regional Director Mental Health Association of Nassau County Hempstead, NY 1. Community Health Educator 2. Director of Education and Training MOMMAS House Wantagh, NY 1. Executive Director National Aging in Place Council Long Island, NY 1. CEO, The Crisis Planner Nassau University Medical Center Federally Qualified Health Center East Meadow, NY 1. Community Outreach Coordinator (2) Nassau University Medical Center Pediatric Specialty Clinic East Meadow, NY 1. MD, PGY 3 New York City Poison Control Center New York, NY 1. Health Educator Department of Services for the Aging North Hempstead’s Project Independence Town of North Hempstead, NY 1. Deputy Commissioner Northwell Health Long Island Jewish Medical Center, Reproductive Health Education Center New Hyde Park, NY 1. Health Educator Northwell Health Glen Cove Hospital, Family Medicine Ambulatory Care Center Glen Cove, NY 1. Outreach Coordinator Options for Community Living, Inc. Smithtown, NY 1. Executive Director 14 Planned Parenthood of Nassau County Hempstead, NY 1. Sexuality Educator 2. Family Planning Benefits Coordinator PULSE of Long Island Wantagh, NY 1. President Right at Home Long Island, Homecare & Assistance Hicksville, NY 1. Owner Society of St. Vincent de Paul Bethpage, NY 1. Program Support Associate The American Cancer Society Hauppauge, NY 1. Health Systems Manager, Primary Care United Way of Long Island Deer Park, NY 1. Vice President, Community Impact Utopia Homecare Kings Park, NY 1. Certified Senior Advisor, Age in Place Specialist Summary of Findings Data Analysis ATLAS TI Qualitative Data Analysis software was used to guide and structure analysis process. Members of the Qualitative Analysis team discussed strategy and logistics of project from beginning to completion of report. Alyssa Dahl, Principal Research Analyst, served as the lead analyst on the project, during which she offered expertise on strategy, direction, running qualitative data through Atlas TI software, producing meaningful synthesis of data elements and assisting in the description of the team’s methodology. The complete team is: Analysis team:  Dr. Laurel Janssen Breen, Associate Professor Assistant Chair, St. Joseph’s College  Michael Corcoran, Data Analyst, Population Health Improvement Program  Alyssa Dahl, Principal Research Analyst, Data Gen Healthcare Analytics  Janine Logan, Senior Director, Nassau Suffolk Hospital Council, Population Health Improvement Program  Kate McCale, Director of Quality and Education, Rochester Regional Healthcare Association, Nassau Suffolk Hospital Council  Sarah Ravenhall, Program Manager, Population Health Improvement Program  Kim Whitehead, Communications Specialist, Population Health Improvement Program The Distinct and Cumulative Prevention Areas by ranking tables, displayed below, outline the New York State Prevention Agenda Priority Areas ranked in order from highest to lowest rate of marked significance of concern among participants. Summit participants reported Chronic Disease as the most significant health problem seen within the communities they serve in Nassau County. In looking at distinct Prevention Agenda Categories, 26. of quotations indicated Chronic Disease being a priority area. Cumulatively 15 42. of quotations in Nassau were identified as being inclusive of one or more Chronic Disease keywords. Within the Chronic Disease Priority Area, Chronic Disease Management and Obesity/Nutrition were the most frequently mentioned focal areas. Of the total number of quotes by County, 10. of quotations included “Chronic Disease Management” as a topic of importance. Obesity/Nutrition was a focal area of 9. in Nassau. Mental Health and Substance Abuse emerged closely as a second ranking Priority Area. Analysis shows 2. quotations in Nassau indicate Mental Health as a priority. Cumulatively, 36. of the total number of quotes included Mental Health and Substance Abuse as a priority area. Distinct Prevention Areas by Ranking Distinct Prevention Areas by Ranking reflects the number of quotations where the focus area is mentioned at least once and counted once, divided by the total number of Nassau County quotes. Example of Quotation: “Chronic Disease is a problem for the community I serve. Many of our members are troubled with obesity and tobacco use.” This quote is coded once for chronic disease. Rank Nassau %* 1 Chronic Disease 26. 2 Mental Health 23. 3 Healthy and Safe Environment 20. 4 Healthy Women, Infants and Children 19. 5 HIV, STD and Vaccine Preventable Disease and Health Care Associated Infections 6. *Distinct number of quotations with Nassau County code and priority area code/total number of quotes applicable to Nassau County. Cumulative Prevention Areas by Ranking Cumulative Prevention Areas reflects the number of focus areas mentioned within one of the priority areas per quote, divided by the total number of Nassau County quotes. Example of Quotation “Chronic Disease is a problem for the community I serve. Many of our members are trouble with obesity and tobacco use.” This quote is coded twice for Chronic Disease because obesity and tobacco use are two separate focus areas. Rank Nassau %* 1 Chronic Disease 42. 16 2 Mental Health 36. 3 Healthy and Safe Environment 26. 4 Healthy Women, Infants and Children 24. 5 HIV, STD and Vaccine Preventable Disease and Health Care Associated Infections 8. *Cumulative number of focus area quotations with Nassau county code and total number of quotes applicable to Nassau County. Summit discussions also addressed disparities, barriers to care, and other social determinants of health. The following is a brief description of some of the highlights. Disparities among the senior population were of high importance to summit participants, with of quotations in Nassau County being coded under this topic. Other disparities included special population disparities, age, language, race, gender identity orientation disparities, and religious disparities. Barriers to care were discussed frequently during the summit event, with a majority of conversation surrounding this topic. The top three emerging focus areas included: access, financial and insurance barriers. Access barriers included themes related to access to care, housing and transportation. Financial barriers included affordability, barriers to funding, financial burdens, pay scales and poverty. Insurance barriers include keywords related to emergency Medicaid, high deductibles, insurance policies, pending Medicaid, uninsured, undocumented, and copayments. Additional Services and Programs The summit also revealed additional services and programs needed to improve the health of Nassau County Residents. Four themes emerged: Service Expansion & Improvement, more Community and Bridging of Services, Policy and Financial assistance. Service Expansion & Improvement accounted for 21. of quotations addressed which included extended provide hours, screenings for social determinants of health, health literacy and more. Community and bridging services was mentioned in 13. of quotations. This included developing resource centers, family centered advocacy and partnering with faith based organizations. For the complete report, please refer to the Appendix 3. COLLABORATIVE DETERMINATION OF PRIORITIES Results of both the Key Informant Interviews and the Individual Surveys were shared with the workgroup on March 22, 2016.  Community wide survey results: o Representative of demographics in the county 17 o Obesity, Chronic Disease (Cancer, Cardiovascular Disease) and Mental Health emerged as priorities  Summit Results o Chronic disease reported o Obesity ranked as a risk factor o Mental Health reported as important Nassau County Attendees included: Organization Title Catholic Health Services Vice President, Public and External Affairs. LIPHIP 1. Data Analyst Nassau County Department of Health 1. Epidemiologist Nassau Suffolk Hospital Council 1. Senior Director, Communications & Population Health 2. Program Manager PHIP 3. Communication Specialist Northwell Health Assistant Vice President, Public Health and Community Partnerships South Nassau Communities Hospital Director of Education St. Francis Hospital Director, Rehabilitation & Community Services Winthrop University Hospital Director, Community Education & Health Benefit After discussion, it was determined that the following priorities and objects were identified as significant needs and that each hospital would address these issues by implementing their own programs. They are: 1. Preventive Care and Management of Chronic Disease in both Clinical and Community Settings 2. Reduce Obesity in Children and Adults 3. The group also agreed that Mental Health should be highlighted as an area of overlay within all intervention strategies RESULTS SHARED WITH WINTHROP’S COMMUNITY CULTURAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE Winthrop engaged local community partners in a discussion on August 5, 2016 to share the results of the assessment and discuss solutions. These results were also shared via e mail with those who could not attend. This group of partners, Winthrop’s Community Cultural Advisory Committee, represents local communities who are low income, have minority populations, and who experience health disparities. Concerns and possible ways to address needs were also 18 discussed at the following two meetings with our local partners on September 30 and December 1, 2016.  Discussions determined that obesity and knowledge about chronic disease prevention/management are the most crucial conditions to be addressed in particular, asthma and diabetes  Concerns were also raised about mental health issues, drugs and alcohol abuse  During all discussions, it was agreed that Winthrop needs to go into the community, during weekends or other appropriate times when the underserved are available. Our partners believed that educational classes would be attended by members of the community, if held at appropriate times  Participating agencies offered to partner with us to provide space to offer classes on chronic disease management Members of Winthrop’s Community Cultural Advisory Committee: Agency Representative CASA Nassau County Coordinating Agency for Spanish Americans Administrative Aide Community Physician Hempstead Location Cornell University Cooperative Extension Nassau County Nutrition Program Director EOC of Nassau County, Inc. Program Director, Head Start Director, Family Development Center Girl Scouts of Nassau County, Inc. Fund Development Officer Hempstead Hispanic Civic Association, Inc. Executive Director Hempstead NAACP AHEAD Foundation Community Advocate Hispanic Brotherhood of Rockville Centre 1. Executive Director 2. Co Director Hispanic Counseling Center CEO Program Coordinator LI Asthma Coalition Director LI Minority Aids Coalition CEO Nassau BOCES Teen & Parenting Program Nassau County Department of Health Commissioner Nassau County Perinatal Services Educator North Shore Child & Family Guidance Director of the Leeds Place Noticia (Hispanic newspaper) Publisher Project Independence Deputy Commissions, Dept. of Services for the Aging, Town of North Hempstead SHIP/AHEC Community Advocate St. Brigid’s Casa Mary Johanna Immigration Ministry Representative 19 IV. PRIORITIZED SIGNIFICANT COMMUNITY HEALTH ISSUES In addition to the collaborative assessment which identified the prevalence of preventable hospital admissions and the concerns of the community, Winthrop reviewed the top causes of death in Nassau County from 2012 2014 (see below). They were: heart disease, cancer, unspecified dementia, CLRD (chronic lower respiratory disease, i.e., asthma, COPD), and stroke. This is slightly different from our CHNA of 2013, with the inclusion of a new cause unspecified dementia. The top causes of death in Nassau County in select communities during the same time period were slightly different (see below). They were heart disease, cancer, CLRD, stroke and unspecified dementia. 0.000100.000200.000300.000HeartDiseaseCancerUnspecifiedDementiaCLRDStrokeage Rate per 100,000 populationTop Causes of Death for Nassau County (2012 2014)0.00050.000100.000150.000200.000250.000300.000Heart DiseaseCancerCLRDStrokeUnspecifiedDementiaAverage Rate per 100,000 populationTop Causes of Death for Select Communities (2012 2014)20 These statistics support the concerns that emerged during our assessment. The health conditions cited as the leading cause of death are categorized as chronic conditions and obesity is widely identified as a contributing risk factor. According to the Center for Disease Control, chronic diseases are responsible for 7 of 10 deaths each year, and treating people with chronic disease accounts for of our nation’s health care costs.5 Winthrop also reviewed the map below (PQI 92), created based on SPARCS data from Winthrop, which demonstrates that the highest rates of preventable admissions came from Hempstead and Westbury, two select communities that are within our core Service Area A. This finding emphasized the need for the prevention and management of disease in these zip codes that are in close proximity to the Hospital. Note: Highest rates Hempstead & Westbury In addition to the significant needs identified by collaborative partners citing the prevention and management of chronic disease, reducing obesity and addressing mental health and substance abuse, Winthrop determined the following additional areas of need: 5 https://www.cdc.gov/chronicdisease/ 21  Cancer Prevention/Awareness Cited as a top concern among community members; education is needed about prevention and screening.  Healthy & Safe Environment Ranked as the third concern in both the community survey and summit. One of the aspects of this category is fall prevention. The CDC cites falls as costly and a leading cause of death and disability.6 The Prevention Agenda Dashboard also identified the rate of hospitalizations due to falls per 10,000 seniors aged, 65+ as 222.5 According to SPARCS data as of January, 2016, there is no significant change, therefore, intervention is still needed. https://apps.health.ny.gov/doh2/applinks/ebi/SASStoredProcess/guest?_program=/EBI/PHIG/apps/dashboard/pa_dashboard  Women and children’s health The category of Healthy