theextent to which the Family Associate helped toovercome the barriers, and changes in thefamily's sense of empowerment. Resultsshowed that the intervention group was morelikely than the comparison group to initiatechild mental health services; however, thegroups did not differ in their rates of attendanceor premature discontinuation of service. Theintervention families showed a modest butsignificant increase in empowerment at posttest.The researchers concluded that the familyassociate intervention can help families initiatechild mental health services and increase theirsense of empowerment. They recommendedthat future research explore the importance ofbarriers related to limited income and thestresses of daily living. 4 tables, 53 references.(HE9700785)194New Trends in Volunteer Services for theMentally Handicapped.Form:Journal article.Author:Naylor, H.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.22(4): 109 111, April 1971.Abstract: Many lay consumers of mentalhealth services and their volunteer advocatesnow participate in policy development andprogram planning. A study released by theNational Institute of Mental Health inNovember of 1969, Nonprofessional Personnelin Mental Health Programs, documented theways in which volunteers as well asparaprofessionals can supplement staffing ofmental health programs. Some of thesevolunteer functions include (1) caretaking, suchas feeding or escorting patients, (2) socialsustenance in the form of relationships withmentally ill or developmentally delayedindividuals, (3) professional assistance, and (4)bridging the gap between patients and136Mental Healthcommunity services.In addition to thesefunctions, advocacy is a major role of themental health volunteer. Concerned citizenscan make significant contributions as supportersand defenders of the mentallyill anddevelopmentally delayed. As a participatingcitizen and potential consumer, the volunteeradvocate can speak more freely than paid staffand can try to influence important decisionmaking. Volunteers, however, are not alwaysreadily accepted by professional staff. Mentalhealth professionals should recognize theimportance of volunteers, understand wherethey can be used, and be prepared to use themin an effective manner. (HE9700330)195Rural Mental Health Delivery System:Four Corners Community Mental HealthCenter, Price, Utah.Form:Journal article.Author: Anon.Source:Hospital and Community Psychiatry.26(10):671 674, October 1975.Abstract: Community leaders and healthprofessionals established the Four CornersCommunity Mental Health Center insoutheastern Utah in 1972 to begin to try tobring comprehensive community mental healthservices to a vast, sparsely populatedmultiethnic region whose residents had noprevious experience with mental healthprograms. Culturally diverse communitiesincluded Native Americans (Navajos, Utes, andPiutes), Chicanos, and descendants of Greekand other southern Europeans. Because thestaff faced such obstacles as long distancesbetween patients' homes, cultural barriers, and amistrust of mental health programs, theydecided to establish a diverse system of mentalhealth care delivery that consisted of twocentral offices with nine satellite clinics. Thestaff also recruited 250 volunteers from thelocal communities to help handle the averagemonthly load of 600 outpatient visits, 100 day care patient visits, and 20 emergency visits.Cultural differences were a major problem forthe program because many Navajos did not trustoutsiders, hospitals, or mental health services.Therefore, staff members met with local tribalchairmen about the program and trained Navajowomen to serve as outreach workers in thecommunity.In dealing with the Chicanopopulation, staff also encountered a mistrust ofmental health centers, so the program staffprovided services through a Chicano cottage,which offered community services andactivities, as well as mental health services.Inthis way, the mental health services were moreintegrated into other community activities.Essentially, the staff's successful approach tothe center was to enter each community withoutreach workers and indigenous volunteers,find out what the people want, and then helpthem get it. (HE9700329)196Training of Paraprofessionals as BehaviorModifiers: A Review.Form:Journal article.Authors:Balch, P.; Solomon, R.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.4(2): 167 179, June 1976.Abstract: The authors reviewed the use andtraining of paraprofessionals serving asbehavior modifiers in the mental health field.The paraprofessional populations included (1)psychiatric aides and nurses, (2) collegestudents, (3) inpatients, and (4) community andindigenous workers. The studies illustrated thefrequent use of psychiatric aides and nurses asparaprofessional behavior modifiers. Earlytraining efforts primarily involved instructionson what to do with specific patients; later137Mental Healthreports indicated readings, lectures, anddiscussions as didactic instructional tools. Thestudies indicated that training of collegestudents as behavior modifiers appearedstrongly tied to didactic presentations, and wasoften offered in conjunction with college credit.The generalizability and utility of theseprograms was limited because of the selectioncriteria employed, use of a team approach, andthe considerable input of professional and stafftime. An important area for the use ofparaprofessionals as behavior modifiers was thetraining of community and indigenousvolunteers to function in the naturalenvironment.Studies in which volunteers weretrained included( 1 ) a group of volunteerstrained by Tharpe and Wetzel (1969) asconsultants to mediators in order to conductbehavior assessments, collect and organize data,and implement intervention strategies forbehaviorally disordered children; (2)community volunteers (public health nurses,public assistance workers, and private citizens)trained by Wahler and Erickson (1969) tofunction as behavior therapists in home andschool settings; (3) five groups of ethnicallydiverse volunteers working in child care centerstrained by Wetzel (1970) to implementbehavioral intervention strategies for children;and (4) a speech therapist trained by Laws,Brown, Epstein, and Hocking (1971) to modifythe inappropriate social behaviors of three boysenrolled in a day care remedial languageprogram. The studies suggested thatbehaviorally trained paraprofessionals had thepotential to work effectively with clients whowere often excluded from mental healthservices.Training techniques tended tominimize more academic procedures in favor ofinservice and on the job training formats. Theauthors concluded that a strong case could bemade for the administrative feasibility oftraining and using diverse groups ofparaprofessionals as behavior modifiers. Thelack of consistent, solid outcome evidenceprohibited a conclusion as to the effectivenessof these paraprofessionals.36 references.(HE9700332)197Use of Bilingual, BiculturalParaprofessionals in Mental HealthServices:Issues for Hiring, Training, andSupervision.Form:Journal article.Authors: Musser Granski, J.; Carrillo, D.F.Source: Community Mental Health Journal.33(1 ):5 1 60, February 1997.Abstract: To help refugees and immigrantsbridge language and cultural barriers andeducate communities about mental healthservices, agencies are recruiting bilingual andbicultural paraprofessionals to provideinterpreting services and perform outreachfunctions. The paraprofessional's role incommunity outreach involves educating anddisseminating information about mental health,advocacy, community organization, prevention,and initial assessment and referral. If membersof a particular culture are not familiar withmental health services and concepts, outreachworkers can educate them and help themovercome attitudinal barriers.In addition, theworkers can network with other agencies andindividuals and provide these referral sourceswith a directory of mental health providers whowork with populations who speak limitedEnglish. Another role for bilingual, biculturalworkers is interpreting in clinical settings.These workers can provide critical informationabout whether clients' words, attitudes, andbehaviors are considered normal and acceptablein their culture and can advise the therapistabout questions that might be perceived asoffensive or threatening. The authorsrecommend that, when hiring a bilingual,138Mental Healthbicultural paraprofessional, the agency shouldconsider cultural role expectations and theworker's fluency in both native and Englishlanguages, knowledge of the native culture, andsuch personal qualities as empathy, confidence,and respect for the client and the client'sconfidentiality. Other recommendationsinclude pay scales and career development forparaprofessionals. Adequate training is criticalso that the worker provides accurate, unbiased,and complete translations while interpretingduring therapy. In addition, the interpretershould be knowledgeable about mental healthterminology and concepts, basic counseling andinterviewing skills, and relevant ethical andlegal issues. The therapist may need to help theworker with such issues as transference,personal boundaries, and conflict between thecultural demands of the community and therequirements of the agency. The mental healthprofessional and bilingual staff can worktogether to meet the needs of the localcommunity and provide effective culturallyappropriate services. 27 references.(HE9700784)198Use of Paraprofessionals in CrisisIntervention: Evaluation of an InnovativeProgram.Form:Journal article.Authors:Getz, W.L.; Fujita, B.N.; Allen, D.Source: American Journal of CommunityPsychology.3(2): 135 144, June 1975.Abstract: The authors examined the effect of asingle session mental health crisis interventionservice staffed by volunteer paraprofessionalsand situated in the emergency room of acommunity hospital. They also proposed andimplemented a model of program evaluationthat used service deliverers, e.g., crisiscounselors, as researchers. The University ofWashington supplied the majority of theprogram staff. The hospital is located in ametropolitan area of the northwest and serves aprimarily middle class, suburban cachementarea.Staffing for the program consisted ofwell trained graduate students and communityvolunteers. The 293 consecutive individuals incrisis who contacted the service from May 1971to March1 972 provided the initial sample. Thecrisis counselor/researchers gathered data fromclient intake reports completed by the crisiscounselor and from medical records. Theyfollowed up by telephone 6 to 12 months afterthe last client services contact. Follow up wascompleted for 39 percent of the sample.Ifpossible, the researcher who compiled the datafrom the intake was responsible for the followup. During follow up, researchers asked theclients to evaluate (1) the effectiveness of theservice, (2) the crisis counselor's use ofreferrals, (3) the major source of change in thecrisis situation, and (4) the improvement fortheir problem.Findings indicate that the effectof the program in all four evaluation areas wassignificant. There was no significant differencein client assessment of the helpfulness ofstudents and volunteers. The data support thenotion that timely intervention byparaprofessionals in crisis situations may havelasting effects on particular kinds of problems.The clients most significantly affected werethose with depression, anxiety, family discord,and suicidal problems. The use of crisiscounselors as researchers provided feedback tothe counselor directly from the consumer aboutthe kinds and quality of service received.5 tables, 7 references. (HE9700333)139Mental Health199Volunteers as Relationship Therapists forInstitutionalized Geriatric Patients.Form:Journal article.Authors:Eichler, M.; McCuan, L.R.;Berdit, L.Source: Mental Health and Society.3(3 4):212 222, 1976.patients and in challenging the stereotype thatonly professionals can effectively counsel.7 references. (HE9700323)Abstract: The authors conducted a 3 yeardemonstration project to train nonprofessionalvolunteers to carry out relationship therapy withemotionally disturbed geriatric patients at aBaltimore, Maryland long term care, elderlyhome and chronic disease hospital.Recruitment for the program includedannouncements in the volunteer organization,news articles in local papers, and brief radioand television spots. Researchers used the massmedia to recruit the widest range of possiblevolunteers. A psychiatric social workerconducted interviews with all the applicants andassessed their potential to effectively providecounseling. All applicants also completed awritten essay on life experiences. Volunteertraining consisted of weekly meetings of1 hourwith the program's psychiatrist director, as wellas1 hour per week of supervision by a socialworker. Midway through the training, thevolunteers received patients with whom theyworked on a one to one basis. During the3 years of the program, 25 volunteers wereapproved for participation and 17 actuallycompleted the training and began workingdirectly with patients. Because programs suchas the volunteer counselor service succeed onlyif the volunteer is both challenged andsupported, researchers were careful to provideadequate supervision and additional training tovolunteers and to carefully assess potentialcounselor patient personality combinations.The authors conclude that, overall, thevolunteer program was successful in helping140Substance Abuse200Effects of a Peer Counseled AIDSEducation Program on Knowledge,Attitudes, and Satisfaction of Adolescents.Form:Journal article.Authors:Rickert, V.I.; Jay, M.S.; Gottlieb, A.Source:Journal of Adolescent Health.12(l):38 43, January 1991.Abstract: A study examined the effects of apeer led versus adult led AIDS educationprogram on the attitudes, knowledge, andsatisfaction of adolescents with the educationprogram. The study recruited the sample of 82adolescents (55 female and 27 male, mean age15.8 years) from participants in community andchurch organizations. The study determinedparticipants' socioeconomic status by using theHollingshead Four Factor Index of SocialStatus; results suggested that participants werefrom low to upper middle class families. Thestudy selected nine adolescent peer counselors,based on their willingness to participate; peercounselors attended a 4 hour training session on2 consecutive days. The peer counselors weresix females and three males between the ages of14 and 18 from similar communityorganizations. All peer counselors andparticipants were white, to eliminate the effectof race. Health care providers experienced withAIDS acted as adult counselors.Researchersrandomly assigned adolescents to groups thatwere either led by peers, led by adults, orcontrol. The adult led group heard a lectureabout AIDS and viewed a videotape abouttransmission and prevention. The peer ledgroup received the same presentation.Subjectsin all three groups completed the AIDSKnowledge Questionnaire Revised, the AIDSAttitude Survey, and a measure of consumersatisfaction. Analyses of the surveys revealedthat the peer led and adult led interventions hada statistically significant effect on increasingknowledge about AIDS and heighteningattitudes toward practicing personal preventivebehaviors. Both the peer led and adult ledgroups had results superior to the controls.Adolescents counseled by peers engaged inmore interactive discussion following theeducational intervention than those counseledby adults. 28 references. (SA9100249)201Paraprofessional and ProfessionalTeamwork and Training in Managing PCPand Other Drug Abuse Problems.Form:Journal article.Authors: Chappel, J.N.; Smith, D.E.;Buxton, M.Source:Journal of Psychedelic Drugs.12(3 4):301 306, July December 1980.Abstract: The authors address the need forprofessional and paraprofessional teamworkand training in managing PCP and other drugabuse problems. They emphasize the need forcontinuing education and the difficulties inobtaining it, including (1) the excessiveformality, (2) limited or static models, and(3) negative attitudes. The authors also discussthe role of paraprofessionals in this area.Professionals and paraprofessionals must vieweach other as allies and share their skills inattempting to solve the complex problems ofPCP and other drug abuse. Methods used byparaprofessionals have not always been thosetaught by professional schools, but they haveproved very effective. The authors emphasizethe need for additional paraprofessional trainingto provide clinical skills to supplement theirstreet survival skills that have worked so well inalcohol and drug abuse programs. Ex addict141Substance Abusecounselors have been told that the treatment ofPCP abuse should be left in the hands offormally educated professionals. However, a1979 National Institute on Drug Abuse reportcompared professionals, counselors who had nodrug abuse problems, and ex addict counselorsin their job performance. No significantdifference was found in the clients' retention intreatment, criminality, or employment.Counselors' attitudes toward clients were verysimilar and program administrators viewed allthe counselors as competent, saw littledifference between the groups, and assignedclients without evidence of bias. The authorspoint out that many of the recommendedtherapies for drug addicts can be carried out aswell by paraprofessionals as they can be byprofessionals. Training activities should bebased on the principles of adult education. Theauthors outline the steps for organizing aneffective inservice training program. Theauthors state that the most effective clinicalproblem solving occurs when healthprofessionals and paraprofessionals worktogether with flexibility and mutual respect.22 references. (HE9700060)residential and outpatient settings for more than4,500 persons. Problems in achievingteamwork between paraprofessionals andprofessionals included (1) words and titlesdenoting recognition and positive and negativestatus, (2) power struggles betweenprofessionals and paraprofessional staff, (3) theneed for credit, (4) differences in the wayprofessionals and paraprofessionals approachthose they are trying to help, and (5) behaviorpatterns of professionals and paraprofessionalsthat may interfere with teamwork. Theproblems arose from a variety of sources, themost important of which include (1) feelings ofinsecurity, (2) feelings of inadequacy, (3) mythsand stereotypes, and (4) work stress. Solutionsthat have been useful in developing andpreserving treatment teams include (1) staffgroups, (2) inservice training, (3) education, (4)supervision, (5) treatment, and (6) evaluation.Overcoming the obstacles impeding effectiveteamwork and developing better treatmentservices requires ongoing effort and evaluation.2 tables, 20 references. (HE9700059)202Paraprofessional and ProfessionalTeamwork and Training in the Treatmentof Drug Dependence.Form:Journal article.Author: Chappel, J.N.Source:Journal of Psychedelic Drugs.12(2):123 129, April June 1980.Abstract: A psychiatrist describes theexperience of paraprofessional and professionalteamwork and training in the Illinois DrugAbuse Program (IDAP). IDAP was a formermultimodality, community based program withmore than 40 treatment units providingmethadone and abstinence services in142Title IndexThe numbers in this index refer to item numbers, not to page numbers.Activating Ideas: Promoting Physical Activity Among Older Adults. A Guide for Program Planners andVolunteer Leaders. 075Activity and Similarity in Safer Sex Workshops Led by Peer Educators. 130Alliances of Professionals and Paraprofessionals: Who Owns the Turf? (Editorial Response). OilApproaches to Preventing Child Abuse: The Health Visitors Concept. 186Arizona Education Program Develops Indigenous Health Manpower. 110Black Aged as Good Neighbors: An Experiment in Volunteer Service. 117Breast and Cervical Cancer Project in a Native Hawaiian Community: Wai'anae Cancer ResearchProject. 083Breastfeeding Promotion and Support: Peer Counselor Handbook. 145Breastfeeding Promotion and Support: Peer Counselor Training Manual. 146Bringing Providers to the People: Alaska and a Florida County Blaze New Trails in Non PhysicianCare Delivery. 012Burnout, Social Support and AIDS Volunteers. 181Can Home Visitation Improve the Health of Women and Children at Environmental Risk? 147Career Escalation Training:Five Year Follow Up. 189Changes in Empowerment:Effects of Participation in a Lay Health Promotion Program. 013Collaboration as a Strategy for Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Prevention. 182Communication Skills Training for Paraprofessional Helpers. 131Community AIDS/HIV Risk Reduction: The Effects of Endorsements by Popular People in ThreeCities. 183Community Empowerment in Rural Health Care. 015Community Facilitator Implementation Manual. 016Community Health Advisor Program: Training Curriculum. 017Community Health Advocacy: Primary Health Care Nurse Advocate Teams in Urban Communities.018Community Health Advocates Training Guidebook. 148Community Health Aide Program: Health Care for Rural Alaska Natives by Rural Alaska Natives. 019Community Health Aides: How Effective Are They? 066Community Health Representatives: A Valuable Resource for Providing Coronary Heart Disease HealthEducation Activities for Native Americans. 095Community Health Worker: A Resource for Improved Health Care Delivery. 096Community Health Worker Programs: A Leadership Brief on Community Preventive Health. 020Community Health Workers:Integral Members of the Health Care Work Force. 001Community Health Workers: The Interface Between Communities and Health Care Systems. 021Community Health Workers: Who They Are and What They Do. 022Community Outreach and Community Mobilization: Options for Health at the U.S. Mexico Border. 002Community Representatives: New Directions in Education and Outreach. 023143Title IndexCommunity Based, Culturally Sensitive Education and Group Support Intervention for MexicanAmericans With NIDDM: A Pilot Study of Efficacy. 107Community Based Primary Health Care Program for Integration of Research, Practice, and Education.014Community Level Cancer Control in a Texas Barrio:Part I, Theoretical Basis, Implementation, andProcess Evaluation. 084Community Oriented Program for Training and Using Volunteers. 190Comparative Effectiveness of Professional and Paraprofessional Helpers. 067Conceptual Framework for Consideration in the Utilization of Health Aides. 003Coordinating a Volunteer Program. 052De Madres a Madres: An Access Model for Primary Care. 149De Madres a Madres: A Community, Primary Health Care Program Based on Empowerment. 150Developing a Hospital's Volunteer Program. 053Developing a Tool to Record Changes: Impact of EFNEP on Some Nutrition related Practices. 068Developing Capacities of Youth as Lay Health Advisors: A Case Study With High School Students. 132Development of a Paraprofessional Home Visiting Program for Low Income Mothers and Infants. 151Dilemma of Mental Health Paraprofessionals at Home. 191Economic Evaluation of Home Visiting Programs. 069Effect of a Cancer Screening Intervention Conducted by Lay Health Workers Among Inner CityWomen. 085Effect of Peer Counselors on Adolescent Compliance in Use of Oral Contraceptives. 184Effective Hospice Volunteers: Demographic and Personality Characteristics. 054Effectiveness and Efficiency of Indigenous Health Aides in a Pediatric Outpatient Department. 070Effects of a Peer Counseled AIDS Education Program on Knowledge, Attitudes, and Satisfaction ofAdolescents. 200Effects of Home Based, Informal Social Support on Child Health. 152Emergency Department Detection and Follow Up of High Blood Pressure. 097Enhancement of Individual and Community Competence: The Older Adult as Community Worker. 118Enhancing the Role of Community Health Workers in Research. 004Establishing Community Health Centers in Rural Appalachia Utilizing Lay Volunteers. 076Evaluating Training Programs for Paraprofessionals and Nonprofessionals. 024Evaluation of Modeling Role Playing and Lecture Discussion Training Techniques for College StudentMental Health Paraprofessionals. 077Evaluation of Prototype School Based Peer Counseling Program. 133Evaluation of Social Problem Solving Abilities in Rural Home Health Visitors and Visiting Nurses. 071Example of a Community Model for Comprehensive Stroke Services: The Harlem Regional StrokeProgram. 098Experiences in Systematic Training in a Rural Program for Elderly Mississippians. 119Factors in Achieving a Stable Group of Volunteers in a Mental Health Agency. 055Family Dynamics for Paraprofessional Workers. 025144Title IndexFamily Health Worker Revisited: A Five Year Follow Up. 026Friendly Visitor Program:Its Impact on the Social and Mental Functioning of the Elderly.1 14Guide to Written Training Materials for Home Visitors. 153Guidelines for African American Church Based Health Promotion. 099Guidelines for Older Person Volunteers. 120Health and Rehabilitation Manpower Strategy: New Careers and the Role of the IndigenousParaprofessional. 005Health Care and Community Action. 006Health Education as a Basis for Social Support. 121Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction. Volume V:Collaboration With Managed Care Organizations. 158Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume IV:Community Outreach. 157Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume III:Sustainability. 156Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume I:Consortia Development. 154Healthy Start Initiative: A Community Driven Approach to Infant Mortality Reduction: Volume II:Early Implementation: Lessons Learned. 155Heart, Body, and Soul: Impact of Church Based Smoking Cessation Interventions on Readiness toQuit. 113Helping Beliefs Inventory as a Predictor of Volunteer Counselor Training Outcome. 027High Risk Vulnerable Populations and Volunteers: A Model of Education and Service Collaboration.007Home Health Visiting in Europe. 159Home Visitation for Pregnant Women and Parents of Young Children. 160Home Visiting: Analysis and Recommendations. 161Home Visiting and Prenatal Care: A Survey of Practical Wisdom. 162Home Visiting Programs and the Health and Development of Young Children. 163Home Visiting Programs for Families With Children Birth to Three: Results of a National Survey. 164Home Visiting With Families in Poverty:Introducing the Concept of Culture. 165Home Visits: Necessary But Not Sufficient. 166Homeless Prenatal Program: A Model for Empowering Homeless Pregnant Women. 167Hospice Caregiving:Strategies to Avoid Burnout and Maintain Self Preservation. 056How Peer Education Changed Peer Sexuality Educators' Self Esteem, Personal Development, andSexual Behavior. 134How To Guide of CURE/Heart, Body and Soul, Inc.: A People Work in Progress. 028Immunizing America's Children: A Model Workshop. 168Impact of a Planned Health Education Approach on the Control of Hypertension in a High RiskPopulation. 100Impact of Race on Volunteer Helping Relationships Among the Elderly.1 22145Title IndexImprovement of Community Health Services Through the Support of Indigenous Nonprofessionals. 029Improving Hypertension Detection and Referral in an Ambulatory Setting. 101Improving Referral Compliance After Public Cholesterol Screening. 102Increasing Participation in Health Promotion Among Older African Americans. 078Influence of a Nutrition Education Program (EFNEP) on Infant Nutrition in East Harlem.1 11Injury Prevention Program in an Urban African American Community.1 87Inside Home Visiting Programs. 169Intervention to Increase Breast and Cervical Cancer Screening in Low Income African AmericanWomen. 086Is Volunteering a Substitute for Role Loss in Old Age? An Empirical Test of Activity Theory. 123It's a 24 Hour Thing, a Living for Each Other Concept:Identity, Networks, and Community in anUrban Village Health Worker Project. 030Latino Health Advocacy Program: A Collaborative Lay Health Advisor Approach. 031Lay Health Advisor Intervention Strategies: A Continuum From Natural Helping to ParaprofessionalHelping. 008Lay Health Advisors: A Strategy for Getting the Word Out About Breast Cancer. 087Lay Home Visiting Programs:Strengths, Tensions and Challenges. 032Lay Mental Health Counseling:Prospects and Problems. 192Leadership for Primary Health Care. 033Linking Low Income Families to Children's Mental Health Services: An Outcome Study. 193Mobile Van Programs That Provide Immunization Services: A Compendium of Programs. 170Model Program for Providing Health Services for Migrant Farmworker Mothers and Children. 171Models That Work: Compendium of Innovative Primary Health Care Programs for Underserved andVulnerable Populations, 1996. 034Models That Work: The 1995 Compendium of Innovative Primary Health Care Programs forUnderserved and Vulnerable Populations. 035Narrowing the Gap in Health Status of Minority Populations: A Community Academic Medical CenterPartnership. 103National Community Health Advisor Study: Weaving the Future. 036Natural Helpers:Tools for Working With the Chronically Mentally 111 Elderly. 115Natural Helping Among Older Adults. 124Natural Helping Functions of Lay Health Advisors in Breast Cancer Education. 088Neighbor to Neighbor: Community Health Workers Educate Their Own. 079New Trends in Volunteer Services for the Mentally Handicapped. 194Nike Footed Health Workers Deal With the Problems of Adolescent Pregnancy. 172Nonobtrusive Interview Technique for Drug Abuse Program Follow Up. 037Nonprofit Sector's Response to the AIDS Epidemic: Community Based Services in San Francisco. 185Nurses' Role in Primary Health Care. 038Nutrition and Social Service Program for Older People: An Urban Model. 116146Title IndexOlder Rural Natural Helpers: Gender and Site Differences in the Helping Process. 125Older Volunteers: A Discussion of the Minnesota Senior Study. 126Older Volunteers Use and Learn Special Skills in Seven Model Health Projects. 127Paraprofessional and Professional Teamwork and Training in Managing PCP and Other Drug AbuseProblems. 201Paraprofessional and Professional Teamwork and Training in the Treatment of Drug Dependence. 202Parents of Children With Rheumatic Disease as Peer Counselors. 039Patient Care Training Program for Volunteers. 057Peer Counselor Training Program:Rationale, Curriculum, and Evaluation: An Initial Report. 135Peer Nutrition Education Programs on College Campuses. 136Peer Participation in Project Northland: A Community Wide Alcohol Use Prevention Project. 137Personal and Situational Determinants of Volunteer Recruitment for a Campus Hotline Program. 138Physician Assistant Training for Native Alaskan Community Health Aides: The MEDEX NorthwestExperience. 040Planning: The Key to a Successful Volunteer Program. 058Point of Diminishing Returns in Nutrition Education Through Home Visits by Aides: An Evaluation ofEFNEP. 072Por La Vida Intervention Model for Cancer Prevention in Latinas. 089Prenatal Education Outcomes for Pregnant Adolescents and Their Infants Using Trained Volunteers. 173Problem Based Strategies Promoting Community Transformation: Implications for the CommunityHealth Worker Model. 009Procedure for the Selection of Nonprofessional Workers. 041Programmatic Prevention of Adolescent Problem Behaviors: The Role of Autonomy, Relatedness, andVolunteer Service in the Teen Outreach Program. 139Psychosocial Differences Between Elderly Volunteers and Non Volunteers. 128Randomized Clinical Trial of Home Intervention for Children With Failure to Thrive. 073Reach to Recovery Program. 090Recruitment and Orientation of Older Volunteers in Extended Care. 129Recruitment and Training Issues From Selected Lay Health Advisor Programs Among AfricanAmericans: A 20 Year Perspective. 042Reducing Health Risks Through Peer Health Education: A Preliminary Report. 140Relationship Between Community Health Workers, the Health Services, and the Community. 010Review of Research on Home Visiting for Pregnant Women and Parents of Young Children. 174Role and Training of Health Education Aides. 043Role of Community Volunteers in Health Interventions: A Hypertension Screening and Follow UpProgram. 104Role of Parents and Older Peers in School Based Cardiovascular Prevention Programs:Implications forProgram Development. 105Role of the Community Health Aide in Rural Alaska. 044Role of Volunteers: What Educators Need to Know. 045147Title IndexRural Emergency Medical Volunteers and Their Communities: A Demographic Comparison. 059Rural Mental Health Delivery System: Four Corners Community Mental Health Center, Price, Utah.195Save Our Sisters Project: A Social Network Strategy for Reaching Rural Black Women. 091School Based Prevention of Teen Age Pregnancy and School Dropout: Process Evaluation of theNational Replication of the Teen Outreach Program. 141Skin Cancer Prevention: A Peer Education Model. 142Staffing Issues for Home Visiting Programs. 175Starting Point: Empowering Communities to Improve Health: A Manual for Training Health Promotersin Congregational Coalitions. 046Strengthening the Community: The Emerging Role of Outreach: A Manual for Outreach Workers. 176Tailoring Lay Health Worker Interventions for Diverse Cultures: Lessons Learned From Vietnamese andLatina Communities. 092Targeting High Risk Groups: Neighborhood Organization for Pediatric Asthma Management in theNeighborhood Asthma Coalition. 082Teens Teach Skin Cancer Prevention. 143Three Perspectives on Community Health Aides:Surveys of Health Aides, Consumers and Providers inWestern Alaska. 047Three Years Later: An Evaluation of Volunteer Training. 074Training Imperatives for Volunteers Caring for High Risk, Vulnerable Populations. 060Training of Paraprofessionals as Behavior Modifiers: A Review. 196Training of Telephone Crisis Intervention Volunteers. 061Training Outreach Workers to Serve American Indian Elders With Visual Impairment and Diabetes. 108Training Volunteers as Alcoholism Treatment Counselors. 062Understanding Volunteer Peer Health Educators' Motivations: Applying Social Learning Theory. 063Universal Home Visiting: A Recommendation From the U.S. Advisory Board on Child Abuse andNeglect. 177Urban Church and Cancer Control: A Source of Social Influence in Minority Communities. 093Use of Aides in Preventing an Outbreak of Diphtheria in a Housing Project. 048Use of Bilingual, Bicultural Paraprofessionals in Mental Health Services:Issues for Hiring, Training,and Supervision. 197Use of Paraprofessionals in Crisis Intervention: Evaluation of an Innovative Program. 198Use of Volunteers in a Community Mental Health Center Emergency and Reception Services: AComparative Study of Professional and Lay Telephone Counseling. 064Using Health Education Aides in Counseling Pregnant Women. 178Using Lay Health Workers: Case Study of a Community Based Prenatal Intervention. 179Using Paraprofessionals in the Arkansas Health Education Programs. 080Utilization of Peers in a College Crisis Intervention Program. 144148Title IndexVISTA Means Vision: Three Winning Strategies for Training Diverse Outreach Workers. 049Volunteer Stress and Burnout:Issues for Administrators. 065Volunteers as Relationship Therapists for Institutionalized Geriatric Patients. 199Weight Management Practices of Black Paraprofessional Women. 112What's New in Elder Abuse Programming? Four Bright Ideas. 188Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module II:Cancer. 094Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module III:Heart Disease and Stroke. 106Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module IV:Diabetes. 109Women's Health Perspective in Primary Health Care: A Nursing and Community Health WorkerDemonstration Project in Urban America. 081Women's Wellness Sourcebook: Module I:Introduction to Health and Wellness. 050Women's Wellness Sourcebook. Module V:Health Lifestyles. 051Working With Community Health Advisors as Part of the Community Health Team. 180149Author IndexThe numbers in this index refer to item numbers, not to page numbers.Adams, S.T. 031Alema Mensah, E. 085Allen, J.P. 139Allen, J.P. 141Allen, D. 198Alsup, P.A. 098Alsup, P.A. 096Altpeter, M. 087Andersen, R. 049Anderson, H. 143Anon. 195Ansell, D. 086Arfken, C. 082Arno,PS. 185Ashenfelter, W. 044Avery, A.W. 131Back, K. 158Baird, T. 153Baker, E.A. 031Balch, P. 196Ballweg, R. 040Banner, R.O. 083Barbarin, O.A. 118Barnes, M.D. 009Barnett, W.S. 069Bashshur, R. 047Bayer, I.S. 151Becker, D.M. 113Becker, A.B. 030Becker, D.M.