NYU Langone Hospitals 550 1st Avenue, New York, NY 10016 6402 646 929 7870 Expiration 11/30/2025 OMB approval 0938 1308 Form CMS 10611 MOON Medicare Outpatient Observation Notice Patient name: Patient number: You’re a hospital outpatient receiving observation services. You are not an inpatient because: Being an outpatient may affect what you pay in a hospital: • When you’re a hospital outpatient, your observation stay is covered under Medicare Part B. • For Part B services, you generally pay: o A copayment for each outpatient hospital service you get. Part B copayments may vary by type of service. o of the Medicare approved amount for most doctor services, after the Part B deductible. Observation services may affect coverage and payment of your care after you leave the hospital: • If you need skilled nursing facility (SNF) care after you leave the hospital, Medicare Part A will only cover SNF care if you’ve had a 3 day minimum, medically necessary, inpatient hospital stay for a related illness or injury. An inpatient hospital stay begins the day the hospital admits you as an inpatient based on a doctor’s order and doesn’t include the day you’re discharged. • If you have Medicaid, a Medicare Advantage plan or other health plan, Medicaid or the plan may have different rules for SNF coverage after you leave the hospital. Check with Medicaid or your plan. NOTE: Medicare Part A generally doesn’t cover outpatient hospital services, like an observation stay. However, Part A will generally cover medically necessary inpatient services if the hospital admits you as an inpatient based on a doctor’s order. In most cases, you’ll pay a one time deductible for all of your inpatient hospital services for the first 60 days you’re in a hospital. If you have any questions about your observation services, ask the hospital staff member giving you this notice or the doctor providing your hospital care. You can also ask to speak with someone from the hospital’s utilization or discharge planning department. You can also call 1 800 MEDICARE (1 800 633 4227). TTY users should call 1 877 486 2048. NYU Langone Hospitals 550 1st Avenue, New York, NY 10016 6402 646 929 7870 Expiration 11/30/2025 OMB approval 0938 1308 Form CMS 10611 MOON Your costs for medications: Generally, prescription and over the counter drugs, including “self administered drugs,” you get in a hospital outpatient setting (like an emergency department) aren’t covered by Part B. “Self administered drugs” are drugs you’d normally take on your own. For safety reasons, many hospitals don’t allow you to take medications brought from home. If you have a Medicare prescription drug plan (Part D), your plan may help you pay for these drugs. You’ll likely need to pay out of pocket for these drugs and submit a claim to your drug plan for a refund. Contact your drug plan for more information. Please sign below to show you received and understand this notice. Signature of Patient or Representative Date / Time You have the right to get Medicare information in an accessible format, like large print, Braille, or audio. You also have the right to file a complaint if you feel you’ve been discriminated against. Visit Medicare.gov/about us/accessibility nondiscrimination notice, or call 1 800 MEDICARE (1 800 633 4227) for more information. TTY users can call 1 877 486 2048. According to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, no persons are required to respond to a collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control number. The valid OMB control number for this information collection is 0938 1308. The time required to complete this information collection is estimated to average 15 minutes per response, including the time to review instructions, search existing data resources, gather the data needed, and complete and review the information collection. If you have comments concerning the accuracy of the time estimate(s) or suggestions for improving this form, please write to: CMS, 7500 Security Boulevard, Attn: PRA Reports Clearance Officer, Mail Stop C4 26 05, Baltimore, Maryland 21244 1850. If you’re enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan (like an HMO or PPO) or other Medicare health plan (Part C), your costs and coverage may be different. Check with your plan to find out about coverage for outpatient observation services. If you’re a Qualified Medicare Beneficiary through your state Medicaid program, you can’t be billed for Part A or Part B deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments. Additional Information (Optional):


N CoHospital The Insuramaternityinformatiodays priorBe aware hospitalizyou prior Hospital winformatiocarrier’s MPlease nophysician bill may bWithin 30your planfinanciallyContact IOur officeTelephonFax #: 646Email: OB NYU LangoneongratulatioWe are Insurance Cance Clearany admission. Ton about your to your expethat your insation. If you oto admissionwill require yoon regarding Member Servte coverage aand anesthesbe different. 0 days after yo. If the birth iy responsible Informatione is open Mone #: 646‐5016‐754‐9572 BPre‐Adm@n Medical Cenons on plannpleased youCoverage ce DepartmeThe Mother au and your baected deliverysurance plan mor your baby and notify yoou to pay the your coveragices telephonand benefit insiologist feesour baby’s birs not reportefor the bill. n nday Friday 1‐3967 nyumc.org nter  550 Firsning to haveu have chosent will providnd Baby Queby. We ask thy date. may not coveis not covereou of any estiestimate of cge prior to 30ne number locnformation w. Those servicrth (dependined timely, you9am‐5pm. O st Avenue  N e your baby en NYULMCde hospital finestionnaire fohat you comper of ched in full, the imated chargcharges befor days from excated on youwe obtain is soces are not bing on your spur carrier willOur contact inf ReInsuranceNew York, NY at NYU LangC for this vernancial cleararm enclosed plete and submarges for youHospital’s preges for which re or on the dxpected due dr insurance colely for hospilled by the hpecific plan); ydeny the admformation is evenue Cyce Clearanc10016  212‐gone Medicry special evance for your requests addmit the form u and/or youre‐admission syou are respoday of admissdate, please card. pital services aospital. Noteyou must enrmission and yas follows: cle Operatce Departm‐263‐7300 cal Center! vent. upcoming ditional no earlier thar baby’s staff may cononsible for. Tsion. If you’d contact your and excludes that your finoll him or heryou will be tions ment an 30 ntact The like nal r with MOTHER AND BABY QUESTIONNAIREOBSTETRICIAN: Legal Name:DOB:Age:Address:Home Phone:Cell #:Maiden Name:Social Security #:Religion:Marital Status: ____ Email Address:Employer Name:Address:Work Tel. #:Occupation:Legal Name:Social Security #:DOB:Address (if different from above):Employer Name:Address:Work Tel. #:Occupation:Policyholder's Name:DOB:Address (if different from patient):Home Phone:Cell #:Insurance Company Name:HMO/PPO/POS/EPO/INDEM/OTHERClaims Address:Telephone #:Group #Policy ID#:Effective. Date:Policyholder's Name:DOB:Address (if different from patient):Home Phone:Cell #:Insurance Company Name:HMO/PPO/POS/EPO/INDEM/OTHERClaims Address:Telephone #:Group #Policy ID#:Effective. Date:Medicaid State ID#:Policyholder's Name:DOB:Relationship to Patient:Insurance Company Name:HMO/PPO/POS/EPO/INDEM/OTHERClaims Address:Telephone #:Group #Policy ID#:Medicaid State ID#:Name:Relationship to Patient:Home Tel. #:Cell Tel #:Expected Due Date:Relationship to Patient:Pre‐Authorization #:Relationship to Patient:Pre‐Authorization #:Medicaid CoverageMedicaid CoverageNEXT OF KIN INFORMATIONNYU LANGONE MEDICAL CENTERIf you have any financial questions or concerns, please call the OB Pre‐Admitting Specialist in the Insurance Clearance Department of NYULMC at 646‐501‐3967. You can also email them at OBPRE‐ADM@nyumc.org. This form can be faxed to our secure Right Fax #: 646‐754‐9572. NYU Langone Medical Center |550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016 |212.263.7300PATIENT EMPLOYMENT INFORMATIONSPOUSE/PARTNER INFORMATIONPRIMARY INSURANCE INFORMATIONSECONDARY INSURANCE INFORMATIONIN WHICH INSURANCE PLAN DO YOU PLAN TO ENROLL YOUR NEWBORN?


Parent’s Bill of RightsThe hospital views every parent and legal guardian as a valued member of the health care team and encourages you to speak with staff about your child’s care.As a pediatric patient/family in a hospital in New York State, you have the right to: 1Understand and use these rights. If for any reason you do not understand or you need help, the hospital MUST give support, including an interpreter.2Have care, treatment and services free from discrimination related to age, race, ethnicity, religion, culture, language, physical or mental disability, socioeconomic status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, who pays for care or your ability to pay.3Be asked for the name of your primary care provider and have this information put in your medical record.4Be cared for by qualified staff, in the right kind of space with the right sized equipment needed for the unique needs of patients who are children.5Know the names of doctors or staff and a person’s title or job.6To the extent possible, have at least one parent/guardian stay with the patient at all times.7Have your cultural, psychosocial, spiritual, and personal values, beliefs, and preferences respected and to have related services if needed.8Expect staff to check for pain regularly, to take care of pain issues in a reasonable time and teach you about pain care.9Privacy while in the hospital and confidentiality of all information and records about your care.10Have someone from the hospital ask your permission before recording, filming or taking pictures of you or your child.11Be involved in and make decisions about care, treatment and services. This includes giving information about your child’s health problem and helping to make and carry out the treatment plan.12Have all lab results given to your child’s primary care provider.13Have all test results done during your child’s admission or emergency room visit reviewed by a doctor, doctor’s assistant or nurse practitioner who knows your child’s health condition.14Not be sent home from the hospital or the emergency room until any tests that could reasonably be expected to give “critical value” results are completed and reviewed by medical staff who talk to you about them as appropriate. Critical value results are results that suggest a life threatening or otherwise significant condition that requires immediate medical attention.15Be sent home with a written discharge plan, which will also be talked about with other medical decision makers. This plan will show critical value results of lab or other tests done during your stay and show any other tests that have not yet been finished. It will be discussed with you in a way that makes sure you can look at, talk about, and understand this health information so you can make health decisions that are right for your child. 16Be given, upon discharge, a phone number that you can call for advice in the event that complications or questions arise concerning your child’s condition.17Look over your medical record free of charge. Get a copy of your medical record to keep for which the hospital can charge a small fee. You cannot be denied a copy if you cannot afford to pay.18Complain without fear of punishment about the care and services you and your family are getting and have the hospital respond. You may have a written response if you ask for one. If you are not satisfied with the hospital’s response, you can complain to the New York State Health Department. The hospital must give you the State Health Department telephone number.


Updated October 2017 Patient Information Change/Verification Form If necessary, provide complete SSN: ______ ____ ______ Relationship to the patient: (circle one) Self Parent Legal Guardian For Minors, verify parent/guardian name: ___________________________________ (Please provide parent’s Photo ID to scan) Signature Print Name CURRENT DEMOGRAPHICS Today’s Date: Patient’s Legal Name: (Last, First, Middle) Date of Birth: Sex: Email: Phone Number: Address: PREVIOUS DEMOGRAPHICS Patient’s Previous Name: Previous Address: