get infected, the virus usually remains in the body for a lifetime. Babies can get the virus from their infected mothers at birth or, more commonly, from an infected person who cares for the baby or works in the home. The hepatitis B vaccine is a baby’s best defense against being infected with this virus. Experts from the American Academy of Pediatrics, the American Academy of Family Physicians, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention all recommend vaccination against hepatitis B as a routine part of a newborn’s hospital care, just like checking a baby’s hearing. It is our standard to offer and administer the hepatitis B vaccine to all newborns born at NYU Langone. Spiritual Care Request Form Please contact the spiritual care team using the form below.You can expect a response within one business day. If this is an urgent request, please ask your nurse to page the chaplain on call. Hospital and Room Number Describe your Request Prayer Visit from Chaplain Communion Religious Preference (if applicable) NYU Langone’s Center for Perinatal Education and Lactation offers numerous parent education classes and groups that help you prepare for childbirth and provide you with the support you need when you bring your baby home. Our live online classes, eClasses, and support groups are available to all—and our , available in several languages, let you learn at your own place. Topics we cover include information about the following: pregnancy and childbirth newborn, infant, and toddler parenting breastfeeding In addition, our free teaches you what to expect from the childbirth experience at NYU Langone. For more information about any of these programs, please email . To register for any of these classes or programs, please use our online registration system Pregnancy and Childbirth Classes If you prefer to learn at your own pace or have limited time, consider our eClass Understanding Childbirth Childbirth Express (Live Online) This one-day class is a fast-paced overview of the childbirth experience. Topics include physiology of labor, comfort measures, common practices and interventions, birth preferences, and postpartum adjustments. Register onlin e. : $299 Prepared Childbirth (Live Online) The Prepared Childbirth class is a three-week childbirth education series for pregnant women and their support persons. Topics are based on the Lamaze International philosophy and include birth physiology, including what’s going on before, during, and after labor; comfort techniques during labor; medical interventions, including pain medication; and how to prepare for the immediate and at-home postpartum experience. Each 2.5-hour class is live-streamed, and participants are encouraged to ask questions and participate in discussions with the instructor and other class participants. Ready, Set, Induction! (Recorded Link) Ready, Set, Induction! is a brief recorded presentation about induction of labor—interventions your doctor may use to stimulate uterine contractions before labor begins on its own. This session is intended for women who have been scheduled for induction of labor and their support person. Our instructor provides an overview of the common medical reasons for scheduling induction of labor, as well as information about what to expect when you arrive at the hospital. We also provide answers to the most frequently asked questions about induction of labor. : Free Babywearing (Live Online) Babywearing, which is carrying your baby on your body with an infant carrier, offers many benefits for parents and babies, from enhanced bonding to simple convenience. In this workshop, expecting parents learn the ins and outs of choosing and using baby carriers safely and comfortably. Topics include the biology of babywearing, types of popular carriers, choosing the right carrier for your family, ensuring comfort and safety, and troubleshooting, followed by a question-and-answer session. : $30 Infant Safety Seat Basics (Live Online) Learn the basics of your infant safety seat, including strap positioning, proper harness adjustment for your baby, aftermarket products, and expiration dates. Other topics include height and weight limits, handle positions, and the importance of using infant safety seats even if you do not own a car. This session is ideal for those who already own a car seat. Please have a stuffed animal or infant doll available for the session. : $25 Birth Basics in Japanese and English (Live Online) This four-hour livestreamed class covers the basics of healthy birth. Topics addressed include the Lamaze Six Healthy Birth Practices, stages of labor, medical support and postpartum healing. Learn about laboring at home and at the hospital and practice a variety of pain-coping techniques. This class is taught in Japanese and English and is intended for couples. : $200 Planned Cesarean Birth (Live Online) This two-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to people who already have a cesarean birth scheduled. This class reviews how best to prepare, what happens during cesarean delivery, and what to expect after your baby is born. : $60 Dogs and Storks (Live Online) During “Dogs and Storks,” we help families that have dogs prepare for life with a baby. We offer positive, practical, and fun solutions that help you include your dog once the newest member of your family arrives. This workshop helps families transition from pet parents to baby parents with pets. Healthy Families (Live Online) Becoming parents can bring profound changes to a couple’s relationship. During the Healthy Families webinar, new and expecting parents learn ways to work through conflict with greater ease, improve communication, create positive parent–infant interactions, maintain relationship satisfaction, reduce the incidence or severity of postpartum mood disorders, and increase friendship in the relationship. This webinar is based on the work of researchers at the Gottman Institute, which teaches the Gottman Method of couples therapy. Healthy Pregnancy (Live Online) During this two-hour presentation, you learn how your baby grows and what physical changes you can expect throughout your pregnancy. Our certified childbirth educator provides practical tips for relieving the physical discomfort that women commonly feel as their babies grow. This class is most appropriate for women and their partners in the first trimester or early second trimester of pregnancy. : $20 Introduction to Vaginal Birth After Cesarean (Recorded Link) This complimentary online webinar provides an overview and discusses the facts about vaginal birth after cesarean (VBAC) , as well as assists you in exploring your childbirth options. Prepared Childbirth Review (Live Online) If this is not your first pregnancy and you’d like a childbirth refresher course, the Prepared Childbirth Review may be for you. This three-hour class, taught by a certified childbirth educator, is offered to couples that have completed the Prepared Childbirth course within the last three years. This is not adequate for couples having their first baby. Please email NYUBaby@NYULangone to request. : $50 Ready, Set, Grandparent! (Live Online) Soon-to-be grandparents are invited to our Ready, Set, Grandparent! class, which explores the transition to this new and exciting role. We discuss generational parenting differences, current maternity and infant care practices, and how to best help new parents. We also review baby care, including feeding, diapering, swaddling, and more. Terrific Twins and Triplets (Live Online) This course helps you and your partner prepare for the unique joys and challenges of raising multiples. From pregnancy to birth to parenting, we provide guidance, tips, and educational tools to help you plan for your new family. We also discuss self-care, baby care, feeding, essential equipment, getting around, and more. Prenatal Yoga (Live Online) This livestreamed class is for pregnant women who have entered their second trimester. Yoga is a safe and beneficial form of prenatal exercise. Movements and poses strengthen and tone the muscles and organs. An emphasis is placed on soothing practices including breathing, meditation, visualization, and relaxation. : $150 for a 4-week series Yoga for Labor and Delivery (Live Online) This two-hour live online session uses movement, positions, breath, and relaxation to support the birthing process. Keeping the mind calm is helpful during childbirth. Sessions are for the expectant mother and her birthing partner. Cost: $50 Newborn, Infant, and Toddler Parenting Classes and Support Going Home with Your Baby (Recorded Link) This recorded presentation contains important information regarding your discharge from the hospital and caring for yourself and your baby in the early days after delivery. We encourage you to view this complimentary video both prior to and again after delivering your baby. Babyproofing and Child Safety (Live Online) During this 75-minute livestreamed class, participants learn about sleep and crib safety, childproofing, fire safety, emergency preparedness, safety products, and ways to prevent poisoning. This session covers safety measures for newborns through the toddler years and general home safety for all. : $40 for 2 participants. Potty Training Basics (Live Online) Learn how to determine when your child is emotionally and physically ready for toilet training in this two-hour live online session. We provide parents of children ages 18 months to 2.5 years of age with strategies to make the process fun and help avoid setbacks. Each session includes plenty of time for discussion. Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) Sign, Say, and Play! is a live online baby sign language workshop series for hearing babies. Classes are a fun and entertaining way for parents and hearing babies to learn sign language together. Topics covered in this three-week series include mealtime, bedtime, bath time, getting dressed, pets, and the park. Through songs, activities, books, and instruction, six or seven signs are taught for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 More Sign, Say, and Play! (Live Online) This second six-week series of “play classes” helps provide parents with information on how they can support their baby’s social and emotional development through fun activities, games, and songs. The curriculum has been designed to follow the first series, although it can be taken as a standalone series. Topics covered in this three-week baby sign language series include feelings, outside, farm, safety, zoo, and birthday. Six or seven signs are learned for each topic. Siblings and other family members are welcome to join in. : $90 ($72 if you previously purchased the first baby sign language series) Mothers with Toddlers Group (Live Online) During our Mothers with Toddlers Group, moms meet virtually to discuss their children’s behaviors, share their experiences, and provide encouragement. The group is facilitated by our professional staff who share and offer guidance when needed. : Free for mothers who delivered at NYU Langone; $15 for the general public Infant CPR (Live Online) During this live, online course, a certified cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) instructor teaches parents and caregivers the basic steps of CPR and choking relief for infants up to 1 year old. Participants are asked to have on hand a doll or stuffed animal to use for practicing chest compressions alongside the instructor. This webinar is designed to provide an overview of the basic steps of infant CPR and choking. It is not a certification course. The course includes time to ask questions and have group discussion with the instructor. : $40 Sibling Class (Live Online) This one-hour webinar uses discussion and educational play to help children prepare for their new sibling. The class is designed for children age 3 and older. : $15 Starting Solids (Live Online) As your baby nears the sixth month of life, he or she approaches a major milestone: eating solid food. Learn what you need to know to feel confident when introducing your baby to solid foods. Baby and Me Yoga (Live Online) This 45-minute yoga session is for mothers and newborns between 6 weeks and 12 months of age. We practice gentle stretching, meditation, and breathing exercises to help moms build strength, balance, and flexibility. Moms also share parenting tips and experiences in a peaceful, relaxed environment. No Prenatal Yoga experience required. : $15 per session Learn and Play/New Baby & Parent Support Group (Live Online) This support group is for birthing parents with new babies to have the opportunity to meet and talk with others about their discoveries and experiences as a new parent. Most weeks there will be an opportunity to expand your baby’s and your own knowledge with scheduled guests and professionals, including but not limited to Baby Sign Language, dental health, Baby and Me Yoga, Baby Minds Activities, traveling with baby, and participant–requested topics. Registration for each session is required. : Free for those delivering at NYU Langone; $15 for general public Boot Camp for New Dads (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Dads is a workshop for fathers and other support persons of a birthing parents. During this three-hour class, our instructors discuss ways you can support support your partner through the childbirth experience, adjust to life with a newborn, and explore your new role as a father. If you prefer to learn at your own pace, or have limited time, consider our eClass : $65 Boot Camp for New Moms (Live Online) Boot Camp for New Moms is a unique workshop where moms-to-be get advice, insight, and tips on how to raise a baby. This 2.5-hour virtual session offers a judgment-free setting for expectant and new moms to discuss a variety of experiences about what happens in the early days after birth. The workshop shows that there’s no one “right” way. Breastfeeding Classes and Support Prenatal Breastfeeding Basics (Live Online) This 2.5-hour class for expectant mothers and their partner or another family member is taught by an International Board-Certified Lactation Consultant. Topics covered include the benefits of breastfeeding, proper positioning and attachment, maintaining milk supply, learning feeding cues, what to expect in the early weeks, and strategies to deal with early breastfeeding challenges. There will be opportunities for questions and answers. Partners and support persons are strongly encouraged to attend. : $80 Lactation 101: Breastfeeding in the Hospital (Recorded Link) As a follow-up to your prenatal breastfeeding class, please watch this video to review the process of early breastfeeding in the hospital and what to expect after giving birth. This guide to basic breastfeeding information will help get you and your baby off to the right start. Pumping 101 (Live Online) This live, 90-minute class, taught by a board-certified lactation consultant, is for those who want to learn more about pumping breast milk for their baby. Topics include how to choose the right pump to meet your needs, how to combine breastfeeding and pumping, when and how to pump, techniques to effectively express your milk, best practices for storage and handling of breast milk, and more. There will be ample time for questions and answers at the end of the session. Telehealth Lactation Consultations During this 60-minute, one-on-one online session, an international board-certified lactation consultant evaluates the breastfeeding relationship and addresses your questions and concerns. At the end of the session, you receive a personalized care plan to help you reach your breastfeeding goals. All sessions take place through your . If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can create an account . We also recommend that you download the to access your MyChart account from your mobile device. To schedule virtual lactation video visit, please email your request to , with the subject line: Lactation Consultation Request. Please include your full name, baby’s name, baby’s date of birth, and your phone number in your email. : Visits are covered by most insurance plans. Check with your insurance plan to ensure there is no out-of-pocket expense. Breastfeeding Café (Live Online) This online support group offers new mothers who have newborns to six-month-olds the opportunity to provide each other with encouragement and feedback on breastfeeding. The session is in a question-and-answer format. Registration for each session is required. Breastfeeding Café Grande (Live Online) This online group offers breastfeeding support and encouragement to mothers of babies 4 months of age and older. Finding Balance: Breastfeeding and Returning to Work (Live Online) Taught by a lactation consultant, this 90-minute class is for mothers who are preparing to return to work and want to keep breastfeeding. We recommend you take this class at least one month before your maternity leave ends. We have locations and programs throughout New York City. 718-630-7942 Family Health Centers Adult Medicine Program Behavioral Health Program Community-Based Programs Early Childhood Services Youth & Adolescent Services Community Development Programs Family Strengthening Services Older Adult Services Pediatric Health Program Rehabilitation Program School Health Program Women’s Health Leadership & Board of Trustees The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, founded in 1967, has grown to become one of the largest Federally Qualified Health Center networks in the nation. We are home to the largest dental residency program in the country, the largest school health program in New York, and with more than 100,000 patients, our network handles 600,000 doctor’s visits each year. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a community-based program that provides high-quality primary and preventive outpatient care to adults and children regardless of their ability to pay or health insurance status. Family Health Centers Provides Backpacks for Students Family Health Centers Receives Grant for Overdose Prevention EMT Training Program Opens Door to Careers in Healthcare Our organization is dedicated to providing the highest-quality care through evidence-based practices. This means that our treatments and procedures are guided by the latest and most reliable findings in the medical field. We have received  Magnet recognition for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center. This achievement is considered the gold standard of nursing care, and reflects our ongoing commitment to providing the highest level of quality and safety to our patients. Learn more by reading our 50th Anniversary Report to the Community and watching our video. VIDEO: The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone offers healthcare and community-based services to adults and children throughout Brooklyn. Services We Provide Our network of Brooklyn-based community health centers includes 9 primary care and specialty sites, more than 50 school-based health and dental clinics, and a wide array of social support services for adults, children, and families. We provide access to the following services: primary and specialty care for adults obstetrics and women’s health services pediatric care dental care behavioral and mental health services school-based health programs provide children access during the school day to medical, dental, and vision care, as well as behavioral health services. provide job training for adults youth development opportunities early childhood programs programs for older adults . The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone also operate community medicine clinics that provide access to primary healthcare services to people who are dealing with homelessness and transitional living issues. Careers at the Family Health Centers Learn about healthcare-related jobs, including jobs for dentists, nurses, and physicians. View Our Job Opportunities Family Health Centers at NYU Langone is a Health Center Program grantee under 42 U.S.C. 254b, and a deemed Public Health Service employee under 42 U.S.C. 233(g)-(n) and a member of the National Health Service Corps. This health center receives Health and Human Services (HHS) funding and has Federal Public Health Service (PHS) deemed status with respect to certain health or health-related claims, including medical malpractice claims, for itself and its covered individuals. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides a welcoming environment to all regardless of race, color, sex, national origin, disability, religion, sexual orientation, or ability to pay. We provide for people who cannot pay for their medical care through a sliding scale fee discount program. We accept most major insurance plans, including Medicaid and Medicare. Clinic Locations Family Physician Family Health Center at NYU Langone Flatbush Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Ridge Family Health Center at NYU Langone Park Slope Family Health Center at NYU Langone Red Hook Family Health Center at NYU Langone Seventh Avenue Family Health Center at NYU Langone Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—55th Street Sunset Park Family Health Center at NYU Langone—Second Avenue Sunset Terrace Family Health Center at NYU Langone We are a leader in stroke and trauma care and the hospital of choice in Brooklyn. Community Medicine Program—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide medical care to people who are homeless or living in transitional housing. Dental Medicine—NYU Langone Family Health Centers We provide dental care to adults and children through our community-based and school-based programs. Services for Older Adults Transportation Program Learn more about civil rights complaints and how to file a complaint related to our provision of transportation services for older adults. View More Information Dr. Glenn Saxe Has a Mission to Help Children Escape Trauma New Requirements Impact Medicaid-Eligible Patients Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Expands into Red Hook Affirming Our Commitment to Providing Exceptional Care Four New In-School Dental Programs Open in Queens Good Grades Start with Good Vision Maternal & Child Healthcare in Brooklyn Earns Top Marks NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Earns Top Nursing Recognition $5M Grant Helps Launch Mental Illness Program in Brooklyn Electroconvulsive Therapy Program at Inpatient Psychiatry at Tisch Hospital provides inpatient and outpatient to people who need treatment for , and other mood disorders. ECT is most often used as a treatment for people with a condition that is severe or has not responded to medication. During the procedure, you receive general anesthesia and are unconscious, so there is no discomfort. A small amount of electricity is used to trigger a seizure that lasts only 30 to 90 seconds. The seizure improves the symptoms of depression in most patients. Each ECT session lasts 10 to 15 minutes, although you will need extra time to prepare and then recover from the procedure. We recommend you allot at least two hours for each session. Treatments are given three times a week for two to four weeks. Most patients experience improvement in symptoms after 6 to 12 sessions. Preparing for Electroconvulsive Therapy Our experts evaluate each patient seen through our Electroconvulsive Therapy Program to ensure that ECT is the right treatment for your symptoms and condition. We talk with you about your medical history and perform a psychiatric evaluation. Our doctors order tests, including blood tests, an echocardiogram, and neuroimaging if necessary. These tests are performed to ensure you are medically cleared for treatment. Most people can safely receive ECT treatment, including older adults and pregnant women. During your initial ECT consultation, we encourage you and your family members to ask questions about the procedure and what to expect. Treatments can start while you are part of our inpatient psychiatry program, or, if advised by your doctor, you can begin as an outpatient. If you are an outpatient, you need to have someone available to bring you home after each treatment. Electroconvulsive therapy is a medical procedure that requires sedation, so we ask that you not eat anything after midnight the day before your scheduled appointment. For more information about our ECT program, please call 212-263-7419 Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s & Movement Disorders 212-263-4838 212-263-4837 At the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone, our mission is to advance treatment, education, and research for . We take a humanistic, empathetic, and compassionate approach to care, which emphasizes the person, rather than the disease. Fresco Institute team works closely with you and your family to develop customized treatment plans that fit your goals. We aim to provide the best treatments to control your symptoms and enhance your quality of life, while helping to connect you and your family to innovative programs in the community. The Fresco Institute is also committed to to improve our understanding of the nature of Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. Researchers are actively investigating ways to better address symptoms and improve treatment options. Among these innovative treatments are experimental medications tested in clinical trials, new forms of , and groundbreaking noninvasive treatments, such as transcranial magnetic stimulation. The Fresco Institute is proud to be a Parkinson’s Foundation Center of Excellence since 2009 and to be a leader in Parkinson’s disease care. The Fresco Institute, originally named the NYU Langone Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Center, was founded in 2007 with the generous support of the Edmond J. Safra Philanthropic Foundation. Our physicians are leaders in diagnosing and treating patients with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Steven J. Frucht Parkinson's & Movement Disorders Specialist Un J. Kang Nora L. Chan Patrick Drummond Xavier Guell Paradis Rebecca Lalchan Claire Miller Giulietta M. Riboldi Betsy Thomas Patient Resources Neuroscience Institute The Fresco Institute is proud to partner with NYU Langone’s Neuroscience Institute, which conducts research into neurological conditions, such as Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer’s disease. We provide people with Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders with occupational and physical therapy, rehabilitation psychology, and speech–language therapy through NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. We are dedicated to training healthcare professionals and to advancing groundbreaking research into the causes and treatments of Parkinson's disease and movement disorders. Our Newsletter Read news from the Fresco Institute. Email parkinsons@nyulangone.org to subscribe. View New Patient Intake Questionnaire Grant Awarded to Study Alzheimer’s & Parkinson’s via the Eye NYU Langone Health is committed to delivering the highest standard of care to the diverse communities we treat. When you share your race, ethnicity, and preferred language, we get to know more about you and your community. This helps us as we continue to work together to achieve the best health outcomes for all. What is the difference between race and ethnicity? NYU Langone is an international and diverse community with staff members from many countries and ethnicities. Race refers to how a person identifies with one or more social groups. Ethnicity is more specific and gives us more information. It refers to social groups with a shared history, identity, and culture. Why should I answer these questions? You can choose to answer questions about how you identify socially. You do not have to answer every question. However, answering all the questions helps your care team better meet your unique health needs. If I choose not to answer these questions, will this affect my medical care? Your medical care will not be affected in any way by your decision not to answer these questions. How do you use this information? We look at the patterns of information from our electronic health records. This helps us identify ways to improve how we provide you with the best possible care. We also use this information to teach our clinical teams and ensure equitable care to all of our patients. Will the information I provide affect my health insurance coverage? No. Your answers to these questions will not affect your insurance coverage or medical care. How can I update my personal details? To update your information, log in to your and select “Account Settings” at the bottom of the menu. Click “Personal Information.” How can I be sure that this information will not be used to discriminate against me? The policy of NYU Langone Health and the is to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. Where is my information stored? We use Epic, an electronic health record system, to process and store patient information. You can access your personal health information and medical records through your . Or you can access them by using the . Download our app and sign in with your NYU Langone Health MyChart username and password to stay connected to your care. If you do not have a MyChart account, you can How do I know my information is secure? All patient information collected by NYU Langone Health is protected by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). This federal law ensures that patient health information (PHI) is not shared without your consent or knowledge. Examples of PHI include your name, address, phone number, Social Security number, medical records, and financial information. We offer several convenient parking options for patients and visitors at many of our midtown Manhattan locations. Download our midtown Manhattan public parking map At NYU Langone, we provide you with individualized care targeted to your treatment goals. This approach includes allowing you to choose who can make decisions for you in the event you are unable to do so for yourself. This process, called advance care planning, is a key component of our patient-focused approach to care. Life is unpredictable, and our goal is to ensure that your wishes regarding the type and extent of medical treatment you receive are fulfilled. Advance care planning has four basic components. To get started, download our Advance Care Planning guide , which can help you get down your thoughts and share them with others. The guide is also available in Step 1: Consider your wishes for future care. Step 2: Select a healthcare agent—it can be a family member, friend, or anyone you trust. They act on your behalf should your doctor determine that you are unable to make your own healthcare decisions. Then, have a conversation with that person to explain what matters most to you. Step 3: Fill out the healthcare proxy form , which is also available in , and in additional languages through New York State’s Department of Health website . The healthcare proxy is an advance directive that designates that person as your healthcare agent and outlines your wishes. The healthcare proxy form gives you the opportunity to share instructions related to specific medical treatments. For example, you can let your healthcare agent know if you would want certain treatments or procedures, such as breathing assistance if you become unable to breathe on your own or dialysis if your kidneys fail. You can also indicate your preference regarding organ donation Some people who are seriously ill or frail may also choose to complete a Medical Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment (MOLST) form. This document indicates whether you want an attempt at resuscitation should your heart or breathing suddenly stop. The MOLST form also allows you to make other important decisions, and when signed by a provider it becomes a medical order that is valid in all healthcare settings and at home. At NYU Langone Health we provide the electronic version of MOLST for your convenience. Once these forms are completed, they can be updated at any time. This includes changing the person you select to be your healthcare agent. Your healthcare agent is only consulted if your doctor determines you are medically incapable of making your own healthcare decisions. Your healthcare choices always remain yours to make, provided you are medically able to do so. Step 4: Share your wishes for future care with your loved ones, providers and anyone else you feel should know your preferences. Upcoming Events We have a series of virtual webinars that are open to the public and available through Zoom. Thursday, January 16, 2025 3:00–4:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 989 0083 5533 Zoom Passcode: 121465 Advance Care Planning: Considerations for Patients with Developmental Disabilities Wednesday, March 5, 2025 11:00AM–12:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 984 5683 9265 Zoom Passcode: 827700 Monday, May 19, 2025 2:00–3:00PM Zoom Meeting ID: 985 3103 9850 Zoom Passcode: 947442 We understand that these are tough decisions to make and difficult conversations to have. However, expressing your wishes to your loved ones benefits everyone. You get the respect you deserve, and your loved ones have the reassurance of knowing they made the decisions that were in line with your wishes. Our staff can help you have these conversations and can answer any questions you have about the process. Please contact us at 212-263-0416 AdvanceCarePlanning@NYULangone.org 646-501-7500 646-754-9593 Neuromyelitis Optica & MOG Antibody Disorder Treatment & Research Program MS Palliative Care Webinars Because affects each person differently, the team at NYU Langone’s Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center is dedicated to providing outstanding care that addresses each person’s individual experience living with the condition. Our team of MS experts works closely with you and your family to maximize your potential and minimize your symptoms. Through diagnostic testing and a neurological examination, we identify your type of multiple sclerosis and develop a personalized management plan aimed at halting the disease and alleviating symptoms. VIDEO: Dr. Lauren Krupp, director of the Multiple Sclerosis Comprehensive Care Center, describes the evaluation, diagnosis, treatment, and services provided for people who have multiple sclerosis. We care for people with MS of all ages including children and adolescents through our A Team Approach to MS Care The MS Comprehensive Care Center team is committed to improving the lives of people with MS. Our neurologists, who are internationally recognized as leaders in MS care, create a personalized treatment plan that addresses all your needs. This can include medication plasma exchange . Nurses provide in-depth patient education and support on medication use, symptom management, and the effects of MS on the family. Our social worker offers one-on-one assessments and works with our psychologists to help with symptoms of , and other emotional reactions associated with MS. Multiple Sclerosis Care Get more details about how we diagnose MS and create treatment plans for our patients. are provided through NYU Langone’s . Psychologists and neuropsychologists focus on the cognitive aspects of MS. We also work with a urologist who specializes in treating people with bladder issues associated with MS. In addition, experts at the MS Comprehensive Care Center offer a variety of specialized groups, for people living with MS—and their families and friends—to help them cope with the disease and its symptoms, and to stay informed about scientific progress. MS Research and Education We are at the forefront of into new treatments for MS. Our goal is to find therapies that maximize function and cure MS. While other MS centers concentrate primarily on drug research, our center is equally focused on studying nonpharmaceutical treatments for MS. Our experts are leading the way in deﬁning state-of-the-art care for the daily symptoms people with MS face, such as fatigue, cognitive difﬁculties, pain, and mood disruption. We are also educating tomorrow’s healthcare professionals in the fight against MS through our multiple sclerosis fellowship in clinical care and research. MS Clinical Trials If you are interested in participating in a clinical trial to help evaluate new treatments for MS, please contact our research hotline at 646-501-7511 In addition to our main location at 240 East 38th Street in Manhattan, our doctors see patients at Perlmutter Cancer Center—Huntington . Care is provided by our world-renowned MS experts, as well as neurology fellows who are specifically trained in MS care. We are designated as a Center for Comprehensive Multiple Sclerosis Care by the New York chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. For more information about adult services or to make an appointment, please call Our team offers people with MS and their families a wide array of medical treatments and symptom management. Lauren B. Krupp Nada G. Abou-Fayssal Vito P. Arena Lauren Brandes Multiple Sclerosis Specialist Robert W. Charlson Leigh E. Charvet Malcolm H. Gottesman Josef M. Gutman Jonathan E. Howard Mihir Kakara Marshall J. Keilson Ilya Kister Kimberly A. O'Neill Mirza Omari Tyler E. Smith Robyn Wolintz Joshua H. Bacon Search more than 4,000 doctors and schedule an appointment online. Special Services Primary Care Services Our doctors partner with you to help you reach your wellness goals and treat illnesses that arise. From X-rays to MRI scans, we offer imaging services throughout the New York area. We provide emergency care for adults and children at several specialized locations. We offer urgent care for non-emergency medical concerns that need care as soon as possible. Find a Doctor by Specialty Select a specialty to view all doctors and schedule an appointment. Acupuncturists Allergists Allergy & Infectious Disease Doctors Audiologists Autonomic Disorder Specialists Bariatric Surgeons Bone Marrow Transplant Doctors Breast Cancer Surgeons Breast Oncologists Breast Plastic Surgeons Cancer Rehabilitation Specialists Cardiac Electrophysiologists Cardio-Oncologists Cardio-Rheumatologists Adult Congenital Heart Disease Doctors Heart Failure Doctors Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Doctors Interventional Cardiologists Pediatric Cardiologists Child & Adolescent Psychiatrists Child & Adolescent Psychologists Children's Nutritionists Clinical Neurophysiologists Colorectal Surgeons Cornea Specialists Cosmetic Plastic Surgeons Dementia & Alzheimer's Specialists Dentists Dermatologic Surgeons