academic affairs, chief academic officer, is the chair of the Department of Medicine and a professor of medicine and pathology. As vice dean, Dr. Abramson oversees faculty affairs, including appointments, promotions, and tenure issues. Additionally, his office oversees undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate education, continuing medical education, precollege programs, the admissions process, and NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s accreditation. Dr. Abramson previously served in the Dean’s Office as associate dean for curriculum, vice dean for medical education, and associate dean for clinical research. As vice dean, he led the Task Force on Curriculum Reform, which resulted in the implementation of Curriculum for the 21st Century (C21) at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. A summa cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Dartmouth College, Dr. Abramson earned his MD from Harvard Medical School, and was elected to the Alpha Omega Alpha honor society. He arrived at NYU Langone and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue for his internship in 1974 and later served as chief resident in medicine. With training in rheumatology, Dr. Abramson joined the NYU Langone faculty in 1979 and rose to the rank of professor in 1996. In addition to his role in medical education, Dr. Abramson has experience in both basic science and clinical research in the field of inflammation and arthritis, and has published more than 200 papers on these and related topics. He is a co-editor of the journal Arthritis & Rheumatism , a former member of the Rheumatology Board of the American Board of Internal Medicine, past president of the Osteoarthritis Research Society International, and former chairman of the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Dr. Abramson was named by the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) board of directors as the first chair of the ACR–FDA Drug Safety Committee. He is also a current member of the Skeletal Biology Structure and Regeneration Study Section of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Michael M. Ambrosino, MD Associate Dean for Graduate Medical Education Joan F. Cangiarella, MD Senior Associate Dean for Education, Faculty, and Academic Affairs Victoria C. Dinsell, MD Associate Dean for Student Affairs Brian D. Elbel, MPH, PhD Associate Dean for Research Mission Anthony J. Grieco, MD Associate Dean for Alumni Relations and Academic Events Adriana Heguy, PhD Associate Dean for Division of Advanced Research Technologies Judith S. Hochman, MD Senior Associate Dean for Clinical Sciences Crystal Mainiero, MPA Associate Dean for Academic Planning and Innovation Georgeann McGuinness, MD Associate Dean for Mentoring and Professional Development Keith J. Micoli, PhD Associate Dean for Postdoctoral Affairs Iman Osman, MD Associate Dean for Clinical Research Strategy Jeremy I. Paul, PhD Associate Dean for Basic Science Research Operations and Regulatory Affairs Michael Poles, MD, PhD Associate Dean for Curriculum Joseph E. Ravenell, MD Associate Dean for Diversity Affairs and Inclusion Rafael Rivera, MD, MBA Associate Dean for Admissions and Financial Aid Melvin G. Rosenfeld, PhD Senior Associate Dean for Medical Education Barry P. Rosenzweig, MD Assistant Dean for Graduate Medical Education Verity E. Schaye, MD Assistant Dean for Education in the Clinical Sciences Michael Simberkoff, MD Associate Dean for Veterans Affairs Medical Center Erik P. Sulman, MD, PhD Assistant Dean for Physician Scientist Education Susanne Tranguch, PhD, MBA Associate Dean for Research Training and Communications Marc M. Triola, MD Associate Dean for Educational Informatics Jonathan H. Weider, BA Assistant Dean for Advanced Applications Kenneth G. Langone, Chair Founder & CEO Invemed Associates Fiona B. Druckenmiller, Co-Chair Founder FD Gallery Laurence D. Fink, Co-Chair Chairman & CEO BlackRock Roberto A. Mignone, Vice Chair Founder and Managing Partner Bridger Management Thomas S. Murphy, Jr., Vice Chair Co-Founder and Partner Crestview Trustees William R. Berkley Executive Chairman W. R. Berkley Corporation Casey Box Director of Global Strategy The Christensen Fund Edgar Bronfman, Jr. Managing Partner Accretive Susan Block Casdin Kenneth I. Chenault Chairman and Managing Director General Catalyst Evan R. Chesler, Esq. (Ex Officio) Retired Partner Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP Gary Cohn Vice Chairman IBM William J. Constantine Lori Fink Luiz Fraga Co-Founder & Co-CIO of Private Equity Gavea Investimentos Paolo Fresco Trudy Elbaum Gottesman Robert I. Grossman, MD (Ex Officio) Dean and CEO William J. Haugland Chairman and CEO Haugland Group LLC Wayne Holman, MD ’98 Founder and CEO, Ridgeback Capital Co-Founder, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics Mel Karmazin David A. Katz, Esq. Partner Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz Christina Kirby, MD Emergency Medicine Physician Martin Lipton, Esq. Stephen F. Mack Principal Mack Real Estate Group Linda G. Mills, PhD (Ex Officio) President Thomas K. Montag CEO Rubicon Carbon Deven Parekh Managing Director Insight Partners Isaac Perlmutter Laura Perlmutter Michael Rafferty President & CEO Rafferty Holdings, LLC Stephanie Rein, MD Clinical Associate Professor, Medicine Richard P. Richman Founder and Chairman The Richman Group Linda Robinson E. John Rosenwald, Jr. J.P. Morgan Chase Barry F. Schwartz Emeritus Vice Chairman MacAndrews & Forbes, Inc. Larry A. Silverstein Chairman Silverstein Properties, Inc. Carla Solomon, PhD William C. Steere, Jr. Chair Emeritus Pfizer Inc. Daniel Sundheim Founder & CIO D1 Capital Partners Chandrika Tandon Chair Tandon Capital Associates Alice M. Tisch Thomas J. Tisch Four Partners Robert M. Valletta Jan T. Vilcek, MD, PhD Professor Emeritus of Microbiology Anthony Welters BlackIvy Group, LLC Overseers Stephen F. Mack, Chair Julia Arnhold Overview Capital Heather Baker, PhD Joshua Bank Executive Vice President Alloy Entertainment Turner Batty Trader Jane Street Capital Shivashish Chatterjee Co-Founder & Joint Managing Director DMI Finance Private Limited Melanie J. Clark James Dieterich Jamie Dimon JPMorgan Chase & Co. William Greenblatt Montague Street Capital Paul Tudor Jones Founder, Co-Chairman, and CIO Tudor Investment Corporation Maureen Sherry Klinsky Jimmy Levin Chief Investment Officer Sculptor Capital Management James F. McCann Founder and CEO 1-800 Flowers.com, Inc Allison Mignone Edward S. Pantzer Chairman Emeritus Pantzer Properties, Inc. Lauren Sands LES Collection Ted Segal EJS Group Henry R. Silverman CEO and Owner 54 Madison Partners Allen R. Thorpe Hellman & Friedman Sara Wechter Chief Human Resources Officer Citigroup Inc. Sharon Wee Hansjörg Wyss David Zaslav President and CEO Warner Bros. Discovery Emeritus Board Irma R. Hilton, PhD Laurence C. Leeds, Jr. Frank T. Nickell Kelso & Company Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care and Pain Medicine Andrew D. Rosenberg, MD Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Michele Pagano, MD Cell Biology Andrea H. Brand, PhD Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Jennifer Havens, MD Seth J. Orlow, MD, PhD Emergency Medicine Robert J. Femia, MD, MBD Medicine Steven Abramson, MD Microbiology Benjamin tenOever, PhD Steven L. Galetta, MD Neuroscience and Physiology Paul W. Glimcher, PhD John G. Golfinos, MD Dana R. Gossett, MD Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD Umamaheswar Duvvuri, MD, PhD Pathology Iannis Aifantis, PhD Pediatrics Population Health Lorna E. Thorpe, PhD, MPH Psychiatry Michael P. Recht, MD Rehabilitation Medicine Steven R. Flanagan, MD Building Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone , at the corner of 34th Street and First Avenue in Manhattan, is designed specifically to accommodate the needs of young patients and their families. It is an integral part of NYU Langone’s , which opened in June 2018. A hospital-within-a-hospital, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital features all private rooms. The objective is to create a dedicated healing environment addressing the special medical, surgical, and psychological needs of children. VIDEO: Children and families benefit from our focus on comfort, privacy, and patient safety at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital—34th Street. Designed to be uniquely child-friendly and family-oriented, the new Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital provides: a separate street entrance and elevator lobby exclusive to pediatric services a pediatric procedures center, as well as dedicated pediatric acute care and intensive care units overnight accommodations for a parent, if desired, for a child’s entire hospital stay a family resource room, teen room, expressive arts room, consult rooms, and more a landscaped outdoor garden with sweeping city views NYU Langone’s plan for providing world-class patient care on its main campus hinges upon the newly built, state-of-the-art, 830,000-square-foot , alongside . The Kimmel Pavilion opened in June 2018. Together, Kimmel Pavilion and Tisch Hospital facilities offer a seamless patient experience, with the buildings directly connected on procedural and imaging floors, and on the lobby level concourse. The two facilities also share central sterilization and other support services. Planning Kimmel Pavilion from scratch allowed senior leadership at NYU Langone to rethink how the facility could best accommodate emerging technologies, innovative clinical practices, and a growing emphasis on the patient experience. Its high-efficiency operating rooms are standardized but also flexible enough to quickly adapt to specific uses as needed. The layout optimizes efficiency by moving patients around less, bringing patient care equipment to the bedside, and freeing clinical staff to spend more time caring for patients. Kimmel Pavilion offers single-bed inpatient rooms, an innovation that greatly enhances infection control, allows for a more efficient workflow for staff in each room, and can better accommodate a patient’s family and visitors. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how Kimmel Pavilion reduces its environmental impacts through design and operations 96344-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Job ID: 96344-370 Shift: Days Department: Nursing, FGP Amb Care Cobble Hill (S1818) Virtual Interview Day Every Friday – Ambulatory Care Nurse – Long Island Do you have a passion in making a difference in patients lives through quality patient care?  Come join our multispecialty teams in Long Island!  Seeking nurses with experience in Ambulatory Care. In this role, the successful candidate will support the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures. In this role, the Ambulatory Care Nurse will participate in site and organizational quality and performance improvement activities, collect patient healthcare data systematically using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments, and collaborate with licensed providers to develop patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes. The Ambulatory Care Nurse provides comprehensive care in support of all patients manifested requirements through: administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. Specific activities include, but are not limited to: • Provides information, counsel, and education to patients and families regarding test results and treatment plans as directed • Administers medications (including vaccination, IV therapy, oxygen administration), provides comprehensive wound care, and performs phone and in-person patient triage for clinical concerns. • Assesses and monitors patient responses to various treatments, procedures, and anesthesia. • Assesses and interprets patient information, making treatment decisions as appropriate • Directs, supervises, and delegates to licensed practical nurses, medical assistants and technicians as needed to support patient flow and efficiency • Supports the coordination, integration, communication, implementation and performance evaluation of nursing practice and clinical policies and procedures • Supports key quality initiatives (e.g. MIPS, Care gap management) to impact clinical outcome measures. • Demonstrates knowledge of the NYULH Service Standards and incorporates into the performance of responsibilities. • Participates in designated activities related to NYULH clinical standards and regulations of relevant outside agencies. • Supports the missions, philosophy, standards, goals and objectives of NYULH, Departments of Nursing, and FPG • Participates in coordination of on-site activities to provide patient care in a healing, humane and caring environment. • Collaborates with members of the interdisciplinary team and promotes collegial relationships. • Serves as a support and resource for nursing, other clinical staff and providers • Participates in clinical inquiry and activities to foster evidence-based practice. • Embraces fundamental values and obligations beyond that of a private citizen including ethical obligations and a recognition of patients’ rights to confidentiality. (NYSED, 2009) • Functions as a respectful member of the health care team.• Delegates and oversees specific nursing interventions to implement patient care plans to members of the health care team as deemed appropriate by job description and license/certification. • Engages in self-assessment and participates in activities to promote own professional growth and development • Seeks, acquires and maintains current nursing knowledge and competence to fulfill responsibilities as FGP Ambulatory Nurse. • Utilizes resources to meet individual learning needs and promote professional development in clinical practice. • Maintains awareness of current patient centered, evidence-based practice and considers applicable research data to patient care delivery • Executes medical regimens as prescribed by licensed providers: (physicians, dentists, nurse practitioners, certified midwife, physician assistants, podiatrists) • Assessment: Assess patients, identify unmet patient needs and plan comprehensive care to meet those needs in relation to the patient’s illness, condition or disability. • Case-finding: Identify unidentified co-morbidities or emergent complications and report to the provider so that an intervention may be ordered. • Co-ordination: Integrate care with other health care providers such as respiratory therapists, physical therapists, social workers, physicians, nurse practitioners, dieticians, navigators, and discharge planners. • Provision of direct care services: Provides physical care in the entire patient’s manifested requirements including but not limited to administration of treatments and medication, acting as a sentinel for untoward events or symptoms, disease prevention guidance, rehabilitation care, public health care, and supportive care for symptom relief including health teaching and health counseling. • Collects and documents patient clinical historical and assessment data. • Performs onsite testing, e.g.: POC lab testing, EKG, specimen collection (including phlebotomy), auditory & visual test, psychiatric & physical risk screening, fetal monitoring (ante partum) and non-stress test, spirometry, allergy skin testing, bladder, tb skin testing and result evaluation. • Performs medical and nursing treatments in accordance with plan of care, provider orders, and NYSBON scope of practice. • Perform procedures, e.g.: hot & cold applications, placement/ removal of orthopedic appliances, casts, splints, suture and staple removal, urinary bladder irrigation w/ and w/o chemotherapy, insertion/removal/catheter care of urinary catheter, ear irrigation. • Applies and removes dressings, and performs wound care • Performs patient monitoring including pre, intra, post procedure, testing, medication administration, medical/surgical treatment and/or sedation • Provides medication administration: (IM, PO, SQ, ID, IV topical, inhalation, ocular, vaginal, rectal) as per provider orders or protocols to patients in practice, following nursing rights of medication administration and organizational policies. This includes oxygen therapy. • Facilitates medication refills by reviewing clinical information and preparing order for provider (prospective) authorization in EMR. • Administers IV therapy: including blood, blood products, IV fluids, chemotherapy (with proper certification), IV medications via peripheral or central venous devices. • Starts and discontinues peripheral IV lines. • Ensures clinical in-baskets are managed and encounters closed in a timely manner. • Receives, documents, and reports critical lab values as indicated • Relays normal and abnormal clinical results, follow up, and explanation to patients, as directed by provider. • Performs preliminary review of results for prioritization of urgent findings, then notifies provider for final verification. • Performs in person and phone triage for patient clinical concerns with appropriate escalation; provides clinical advice as within RN scope and/or direction from provider. • Performs Care/Case management of a defined population via multi-disciplinary plan to coordinate/facilitate patient care as needed. • Identifies, through case-finding and critical analysis, patient, family and/or community deviations from health and wellbeing; advocates for, initiates and/or recommends appropriate actions including the establishment of safe environments. • Collects patient healthcare data systematically and continuously, using appropriate assessment techniques and instruments. • Reports deviations requiring medical diagnosis and/or treatment to provider. • Escalates urgent/emergent deviations to medical provider and/or emergency care. • Identifies expected outcomes and anticipates unexpected or adverse outcomes as individualized to the patient. • Considers needs and behaviors of specific patient age and cultural groups in all patient care activities. • Assesses patient’s ability to adapt to new situations and circumstances created by changes in health status and/or environment. • Identifies barriers to optimal care, e.g. physical, cognitive, language, literacy, socioeconomic, cultural, and or behavioral • Assesses & identifies learning needs; documents and updates accordingly. • Develops patient centered plans of care that prescribe interventions to attain expected outcomes, and partners with patients to set individualized goals • Educates patients and families to facilitate and promote healthy adjustment to new or changed health patterns. • Implements interventions identified in the plan of care. • Evaluates patient progress toward attainment of expected outcomes. •   Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES (Connect, Align, Respond, Ensure, and Sign-Off) •   Greets patients warmly and professionally, stating name and role, and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate •    Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person, by phone or via electronic messaging. •    Proactively anticipates patient needs, and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model (Listen, Empathize, Apologize, Resolve, Notify), and escalates to leadership as appropriate. •    Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity, to improve patient experience and patient access, with appropriate leadership. (i.e. ways to optimize provider schedules, how to minimize delays, increase employee engagement, etc.) •    Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience. •    Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles. BSN. A Nursing Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York licensure is required. BLS is also required. Emergency room or critical care nursing experience and membership in pertinent professional organizations preferred. Membership in pertinent professional organization preferred. Fluent written and spoken English language skills necessary. Physical stamina, manual dexterity, visual and aural acuity to perform responsibilities needed also required. BSN is highly preferred; a Diploma or Associates Degree in Nursing requires a minimum of one year experience in conjunction with plans to earn a baccalaureate degree required. Current Registered Professional Nurse in New York, Bachelor’s degree in Nursing required, Basic Life Support Certification through the American Heart Association, Fluent written and spoken English language skills.. ACLS certification. Membership in pertinent professional organizations. Registered Nurse License-NYS, Basic Life Support Certification NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $106,000.00 – $106,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 88486-370 Clinical Histology Tech I (Monday – Friday 5pm to 1am) Job ID: 88486-370 Shift: Monday-Friday, 5pm to 1am Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Anatomic Pathology (H667) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Histology Tech I. VIRTUAL INTERVIEW DAY – Apply now to schedule interview. In this role, the successful candidate prepares tissue specimens for pathological examination. Specimen Embedding and Microtomy QC/QA Participation Filing of blocks and slides and slide distribution Participation in supply inventory management and ordering if applicable Proper use of LIS;Powerpath andOmni-Trax Utilizing the Cryostat for Preparation of Frozen Sections. Utilizing,maintaining, and troubleshooting all equipment; tissue processors (VIP &Peloris), Ventana Nexus, XT, andUltras, and all histology equipment. Slide coverslipping and labeling H/E and special staining and preparation of solutions NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory histotechnician, histotechnologist, technician, or technologist. Associates Degree from a relevant course of study as defined by NYS clinical laboratory licensing requirements. A highschool degree will only be accepted if the individual has the designated experience defined by NYS and has obtained their NYS license through the grandparenting pathway defined by NYS. Experience required is 6 months – 1 year in a surgical pathology laboratory. Exposure to Computer systems. Good communication skills.. Preferred Licenses: Certified Histo Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technician-NYS, Clinical Lab Technologist-NYS Bachelors Degree. HTL(ASCP) Certification. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York City Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $83,008.00 – $105,060.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Pathology Data Associate Clinical Labs Clinical Laboratory Technologist - Microbiology Per Diem Phlebotomist NYU Langone Health has a long history of engagement with the surrounding community that dates back to the founding of in 1841. At present, NYU Langone owns and leases more than 6 million square feet throughout the 5 boroughs, with more than 2 million square feet of that on the main campus alone. The depth and breadth of its service is further strengthened by longstanding affiliations with neighboring institutions, especially NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. Historically, outpatient care has been centered on the main campus between 34th and 30th Streets, as well as campus on East 17th Street. Also in close proximity to the main campus is , the largest freestanding facility of its kind in the country. There are several other NYU Langone sites clustered between 30th and 38th Streets. Other facilities outside this immediate neighborhood include the Finally, a growing portfolio of practices in the New York metropolitan region continues to expand NYU Langone’s reach, including in Brooklyn; NYU Langone Cardiovascular Associates in Queens; and on Long Island. We have also established a presence in Palm Beach County, Florida, with the NYU Langone Medical Associates—Delray Beach In operation since 1962 and the long-standing heart of NYU Langone, is undergoing a series of continual renovations that are a key component of the larger campus transformation project. Tisch Hospital’s updates are proceeding in stages, with many important projects either finished or under construction, and others yet to come. Among the highest profile renovations is the Tisch Hospital Elevator Tower, which added a new 4-car elevator bank inside a freestanding 18-story structure, connected to the hospital’s 18-story bed tower. This project included the expansion and renovation of the main lobby, which together with the tower addition has helped ease visitor access to the upper floors and dramatically improved overall foot traffic flow. The renovation also added substantial new patient and visitor amenities, both to the main lobby—including a new reception area and meditation room—and to each of the upper inpatient floors. What’s more, the new tower and lobby offer visitors a gracious entrance on the first floor and welcoming spaces on all patient floors. Additional projects included in Tisch’s refurbishment include a new clinical core lab, new vascular and interventional radiology and endoscopy suites, and expansion of the Division of Anatomic Pathology in the Department of Pathology. NYU Langone’s Science Building is a new facility encompassing more than 365,000 square feet and 10 floors of laboratory space dedicated to research, including wet laboratory space, core facilities, a new vivarium, conference spaces, and public amenities in an expansive, integrated environment. Positioned at 30th Street and the FDR Service Road, just south of the Joan and Joel Smilow Research Center, the Science Building is the centerpiece of NYU Langone’s transformation at the southernmost end of the main campus, and provides a prominent new gateway to research and education on campus. Like other major components of the campus transformation, the new Science Building expands upon NYU Langone’s existing strengths—in this case, advanced biomedical research. The building’s design helps strategically integrate research facilities and services so that investigators, students, faculty, and clinicians can work more efficiently and collaboratively. Its laboratory floors are designed to be open, efficient, flexible, and easily adaptable with cutting-edge, shared equipment to accommodate advances in research over time. The expansive new Science Building also enables to accommodate new recruits and projected growth in funded research. It is also a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) Platinum certified building, designed with sustainability in mind. Learn more about how the Science Building Vicki Match Suna, AIA, oversees strategic campus planning, design, construction, maintenance, food and nutrition, and facilities operations, as well as leasing, acquisition, and management of properties for NYU Langone Health’s real estate portfolio, which totals more than 15 million square feet and comprises over 550 clinical, research, administrative, and residential locations in the greater New York metro region, Florida, and Las Vegas. She leads the implementation of NYU Langone’s , adopting a comprehensive and consistent design approach to creating healthy environments in the healthcare setting; and to reimagining resilient and sustainable design. The effort encompasses the redevelopment of the Manhattan main campus; ; and expansion of an extensive portfolio of a mbulatory care facilities Ms. Match Suna oversaw the design and construction of the award-winning Joel and Joan Smilow Research Center in 2016, as well as the award-winning in 2018; she also oversees the ongoing transformation of Tisch Hospital . Under her leadership, the Manhattan campus became the first worldwide to receive U.S. Green Building Council Performance Excellence in Electricity Renewal (PEER) and Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) certifications. She also led the campus’ recovery and resiliency efforts following Superstorm Sandy in late 2012. A registered architect and a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA), Ms. Match Suna previously served as a commissioner on the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, board member of the New York City Economic Development Corporation, and a member of the advisory board of the Governors Island Preservation and Education Corporation. She currently is on the board of the New York Building Congress, and is a member of the Business Advisory Council of the Children’s Tumor Foundation and a member of the Real Estate Board of New York. In addition, Ms. Match Suna is a member of the board of trustees of Washington University in St. Louis, where she also serves as chair of the Sam Fox School of Visual Arts and Design, and as a member of Washington University’s New York Regional Cabinet. Ms. Match Suna was an honoree of the New York City Commission on the Status of Women and recipient of the Art Trek Award from the Queens Council on the Arts. In 2010, she received the Center for Architecture Award from the New York Chapter of the AIA and the Center for Architecture Foundation. She received a Sam Fox School Distinguished Alumni Award in 2014 from Washington University in St. Louis; and in 2016, the Washington University’s Founders Day Distinguished Alumni Award. Ms. Match Suna was named as one of Crain’s Notable Leaders in Real Estate in 2022. Ms. Match Suna joined NYU Langone in 1994. She was appointed senior vice president and vice dean for real estate development and facilities in 2007; and was named executive vice president in 2019. She holds a bachelor of arts and a master’s degree in architecture from Washington University in St. Louis. 99521-370 Virtual Interview Day Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men's Health Manhattan Job ID: 99521-370 Shift: M-F Flex 7a – 6p Department: Administrative/Office Support, Ambulatory/Outpatient Preston Robert Tisch Center for Mens Health Virtual Interview Fridays! Medical Assistant – Center for Men’s Health Manhattan We have exciting opportunities available at the Center for Men’s Health in Manhattan.  This is a large multispecialty facility that services our men’s population in the areas of cardiology, dermatology, endocrinology, allergy and dermatology.  For immediate consideration, please apply online. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Faculty Group Practice Medical Assistant (35). In this role, the successful candidate The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers preparing patients and rooms for examination measuring and recording vital signs drawing blood and collecting other lab samples The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry Escorts patients to exam rooms Cleans and stocks exam rooms Measures and records patient vital signs Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy Support equality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR Promotes a positive patient experience Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues Answers phone calls Reviews and respond to in basket messages Follows up on Rx refill requests Assists physician with patient intake amp; transcribing visit into EPIC Performs other duties as needed Clinical Administrative Responsibilities; Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed nbsp; nbsp; Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth nbsp; Assists with maintaining patient flow to and from exam rooms and treatment areas Assists in escorting patients and specimens throughout the facility Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient nbsp; Communicates the functionality and purpose of MyChart to patients during intake Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit nbsp; Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy amp; procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy amp; procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history nbsp; Reviews and imports any Prepare for your Visit Outside Information and patient history prior to provider encounter Works with clinical team to ensure logbooks related to equipment specimen collection and other clinical safety measures are followed per FGP standards Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical amp; Surgical nbsp;May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Maintains patient privacy as it relates to HIPPA standards Handles appropriate patient calls and documents outcome of all patient communications as needed Refers all clinical questions/concerns to RN/Provider Assists with inbasket message management including any necessary tasks related to patient medical advice requests as per best practices Utilizes EPIC functionality to review and update patient records as well as maintain communication with peers and supervisors related to patient care Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary nbsp; Stocks exam/treatment rooms and/or supply closets with medical supplies linen and medical equipment as needed Effectively communicates as supplies need to be replenished Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy amp; guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Supports FGP Clinical Quality Management by facilitating appropriate documentation and maintenance of clinical supplies and equipment Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit nbsp; Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc nbsp; Partners with administrative and clinical personnel to complete prior authorization medication refills and referrals related to patient continuity of care Assists with prescription refill request by locating requested prescription in EMR identifying last patient visit and tasking RN LPN or Provider to evaluate set up and/or process for renewal Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician #39;s encounter with the patient List all proper diagnoses and symptoms as well as follow up instructions and prescriptions as dictated by the physician Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc Performs other duties as assigned Patient Experience and Access nbsp; Drives consistency in every patient and colleague encounter by embodying the core principles of our FGP Service Strategy CARES Connect Align Respond Ensure and Sign Off Greets patients warmly and professionally stating name and role and clearly communicates each step of the care/interaction as appropriate Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging nbsp; Proactively anticipates patient needs and participates in service recovery by applying the LEARN model Listen Empathize Apologize Resolve Notify and escalates to leadership as appropriate Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc Partners with Patient Access Center and Central Billing Office team members to support collaboration and promote a positive patient experience Takes a proactive approach in ensuring that practice staff are fully versed in the Access Agreement gold standard principles To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent Completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience MA experience preferred EKG phlebotomy and venipuncture experience preferred NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $41,977.18 – $58,300.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Patient Experience Associate Administrative/Office Support Brooklyn, NY Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish - Brooklyn Medical Assistant - (FGP) *on site - West Palm Beach* West Palm Beach, FL 99837-370 Virtual Interview Day – Psychotherapist (LCSW) – Remote Opportunities Available Job ID: 99837-370 Facility:() Department: Social Work, Psychiatry-Clinical Svc (S826) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW). In this role, the successful candidate responsible for the clinical