check in with each other regularly.” Glenn Saxe, MD, is a professor of adult and child and adolescent psychiatry. He serves as director of the Trauma Systems Training Center, the primary center for the training and dissemination of Trauma Systems Therapy in the U.S. He is also director of the Center for Child Welfare Practice Innovation, a center of the National Child Traumatic Stress Network. His research focuses on psychiatric consequences of traumatic events in children and on factors that contribute to risk and resilience in the face of adversity. Naomi M. Simon, MD, professor of psychiatry, is vice chair for Research Faculty Development and Mentorship and the director of the Anxiety and Prolonged Grief Program. Her research interests focus on improving the understanding and treatment of prolonged grief, anxiety disorders, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality In April 2021, a multi-institutional team led by NYU Langone Health researchers published the first study to evaluate potential increased risk of death from SARS-CoV-2 infection in individuals with psychiatric diagnoses. The results, reported in , received widespread attention from policy makers and the scientific community. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon. Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” Katlyn Nemani, MD While the team had hypothesized that the risk of death would be highest for patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders, the magnitude of that risk was unexpected—nearly three times that of patients without a psychiatric disorder. Other researchers soon replicated these findings , both in the United States and elsewhere. Since publishing their initial research, lead author , a research assistant professor of psychiatry, and colleagues including senior author Donald C. Goff, MD , vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, have been further investigating the causes of this striking disparity. “My suspicion is that we’re seeing an immune-mediated phenomenon,” Dr. Nemani explains. “Schizophrenia is associated with low-grade inflammation, for example, and this may interfere with the immune system’s ability to mount a more targeted response to SARS-CoV-2 infection.” An Increased Risk Revealed In the initial study, the investigators analyzed EHRs of 7,348 adult COVID-19 patients in the NYU Langone Health system in New York City and on Long Island between March 3 and May 31, 2020. Of these, they identified 14 percent who were diagnosed with schizophrenia, mood disorders, or anxiety. They then calculated patient death rates within 45 days of testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Risk of mortality was assessed after controlling for age, sex, race, and known medical risk factors. Patients with schizophrenia proved to be by far the most vulnerable subgroup in the mental illness cohort. The team’s findings placed schizophrenia second only to age in strength of an association with mortality among all demographic and medical risk factors examined in the sample. The CDC subsequently added schizophrenia and other mental health conditions to the list of comorbidities that increase the risk of severe COVID-19. A New Insight: Antipsychotics and COVID-19 Risk One crucial question following the initial study was whether psychiatric medications might play a role in raising schizophrenia patients’ odds of dying from COVID-19—a possibility suggested by population studies showing an association between heightened risk and prior antipsychotic use. In a research letter published in September in , Drs. Nemani and Goff, along with other NYU Langone colleagues, reported new findings suggesting that this association may be related to underlying psychiatric diagnosis rather than its treatment. They analyzed the EHRs of 464 COVID-19 patients who had been previously diagnosed with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder, or bipolar disorder. Of these patients, 196 were treated with antipsychotics. The primary end point was death within 60 days of COVID-19 diagnosis. Once again, adjusted risk of mortality was nearly threefold higher for patients in the schizophrenia spectrum group than for the reference population. However, mortality rates were equivalent in antipsychotic users and non-users. Continuing to Seek an Explanation Dr. Nemani continues to investigate the factors affecting COVID-19 outcomes in patients with schizophrenia. In a study currently in submission, she and her team looked at the association between specific antipsychotics and risk of SARS-CoV-2 infection. They found no antipsychotic medication that increased infection risk, and a few that decreased it. She also plans to study how patients with schizophrenia respond to COVID-19 vaccines compared to healthy patients. “Some evidence suggests patients with schizophrenia have premature aging of the immune system,” she explains. “A decline in immune function may contribute to their vulnerability to severe infection. This may also lead to a diminished response to vaccines.” “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses.” Adds Dr. Goff, “Research like this could have important implications for the prevention and treatment of COVID-19 in people with schizophrenia, affecting everything from the selection of antipsychotics for a given patient to the timing of booster doses. And it will advance our understanding of a mental disorder that’s associated with heightened risk of mortality even in the absence of a global pandemic.” Donald C. Goff, MD, is the Marvin Stern Professor of Psychiatry, vice chair for research in the Department of Psychiatry, and director of the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research. He has published more than 300 articles on the management and treatment of schizophrenia. Katlyn Nemani, MD, is a research assistant professor of psychiatry. Her research is focused on understanding the bidirectional relationship between systemic disease and psychopathology, particularly the interaction between the nervous and immune systems in people with psychosis. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery The post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. The multidisciplinary conference yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. SOURCE: NYU Langone Health. Surgery for adult spinal deformities carries a high rate of intra- and postoperative complications, reoperations, and readmissions. A retrospective cohort study of 263 adult patients led by researchers at NYU Langone Health’s found that implementing a preoperative multidisciplinary conference to discuss high-risk cases led to striking gains in multiple quality and safety metrics. The conference, added to the weekly spine surgery indications conference starting in February 2019, included experts in orthopedic spine surgery, neurosurgery spine, anesthesia, intraoperative monitoring neurology, and neurological intensive care. Compared to 167 consecutive patient cases before the launch of the conference, 96 post-conference cases showed a significant decrease in total intraoperative complications, massive blood loss, incidental durotomy, delayed extubation, and deep surgical site infections. One exception to the overall improvement in complications was an increase in hypotensive episodes requiring vasopressors, a finding the researchers say could be attributable to the higher average age of patients in the post-conference group but one that did not lead to a longer length of stay or higher readmission rate. The multidisciplinary conference, in fact, yielded a statistically significant decrease in reoperation and readmission rates at both 30 and 90 days. Those gains may be attributable to appropriate patient selection and optimization of the surgical plan, according to study co-author , associate professor of orthopedic surgery. “Spinal deformity surgery is one of the most complicated and high-risk operations in our field,” Dr. Fischer says. “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” “This single-center study shows how impactful multidisciplinary conferences are before high-risk, complex spinal deformity surgeries. It’s critical for institutions to develop this protocol to achieve the best outcomes for their patients.” New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ X-ray showing screw and cement placement after CT-guided ablation of pelvic lesion. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Safer Intervention for Pelvic Lesions Reduces Pain and Improves Mobility A woman in her 50s presented to the NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn emergency department after a work-related fall. She reported severe pain in her right hip that had persisted for months and x-rays revealed lesions on her spine. Physicians diagnosed her with multiple myeloma with involvement in the spine and pelvis, and surgeons performed a percutaneous stabilization of her spine using bone cement. The traditional surgery for ablation and stabilization of periacetabular pelvic lesions, the modified Harrington procedure, carries a high complication rate. Instead, a team led by Karim Masrouha, MD , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, performed one of the first surgeries of its kind in the New York metropolitan region. In collaboration with NYU Langone Health’s Division of Musculoskeletal Imaging , the surgical team used a cone beam CT scan and software to map out the precise entry point and trajectory for a minimally invasive pelvic tumor ablation. After the probe-aided ablation, Dr. Masrouha inserted a stainless steel screw and cement to provide stability to the patient’s pelvic bone. “With a tiny incision, it allows us to take care of the tumor, fill in the space with cement, and put in a screw that acts like rebar,” he says. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique. It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” The morning after the surgery, the patient reported being pain-free in her right hip for the first time in months. After being bedbound for several weeks, she was able to get up and begin walking again on her own. “It’s very clear that this is a safe and minimally invasive technique compared to the conventional alternative,” Dr. Masrouha says. “It isn’t a cure for the multiple myeloma, but it allows for good pain control, improved function, and a better quality of life.” A CT-Guided Approach to Pelvic Tumor Ablation Precise entry and trajectory for probe-aided periacetabular pelvic tumor ablation. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging mapped out the trajectory for precise drilling within the patient’s pelvic bone. A musculoskeletal radiologist then inserted a probe to ablate the tumor. Minimally Invasive Screw Insertion and Cement Fixation Stabilize Pelvis Insertion of stabilizing screw and cement into patient’s right hip. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff After tumor ablation, a 12.5-centimeter-long, 7.3-millimeter-diameter stainless steel screw was inserted to the edge of the tumor’s location and cement was injected through the cannulated screw into the cavity. The screw was then advanced to the far end of the ablated lesion to act as a stabilizing rebar within the pelvic bone. Adapted Cone Beam CT-Guided Screw Placement May Yield More Applications Cone beam CT scanning, with potential to accommodate multiple screw trajectories. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Cone beam CT imaging was initially developed for interventional radiology and cardiology. Applying the mapping and minimally invasive technique to pelvic tumor ablation and stabilization has yielded a safer alternative to traditional surgery. The procedure could be adapted for orthopedic applications requiring multiple screw trajectories, such as stabilization after traumatic injury. Pediatric Orthopedic Surgery, Oncologic Orthopedic Surgery Karim Masrouha, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the New York Ponseti Clubfoot Center. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Drs. Tamas A. Gonda and Christopher Wolfgang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this joint interview, , director of the Pancreatic Disease Program, and , chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery, discuss advancements shaping pancreatic cancer care at . They share insight on how novel biomarkers and endoscopically delivered ablation therapy are impacting detection and treatment, and stress the importance of tumor biology when pushing the limits of surgical resection. Progress in Early Detection What advancements are on the horizon to improve early detection of pancreatic cancer? Dr. Gonda: Biomarkers are certainly thought of as being the future of early detection, making it less invasive and broadly available. There is tremendous excitement in this area. One of the promising biomarkers is actually the early detection of diabetes, especially new-onset diabetes. In collaboration with Lauren H. Golden, MD, , we are learning that following people who newly develop diabetes may lead to identifying individuals at risk for pancreatic cancer. Endoscopic imaging has improved and evolved, and novel imaging modalities keep being developed that increase the sensitivity of this technique. I personally think the addition of molecular imaging—being able to detect certain molecular changes by imaging—will be a game changer. Dr. Wolfgang: Liquid biopsy will also improve early detection. Tumors shed DNA, proteins, and vesicles into the circulation. Doing a blood test and being able to detect low levels of mutant DNA, abnormal protein expression, or vesicles that contain abnormal material holds future promise for a liquid biopsy test. Guiding Treatment with Composite Biomarkers Dr. Wolfgang, you are involved in projects using artificial intelligence to develop blood-based tests for pancreatic cancer. What is your hope for this research? When we resect tumors, we leave systemic disease behind. My research is focused on understanding this minimal residual disease, which manifests as circulating or disseminated tumor cells. Consider a patient who fails neoadjuvant treatment, but we don’t learn that they’ve failed until they progress and are no longer a surgical candidate. If we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery. In developing these tests there are several factors to consider, including mutations in cell-free DNA and abnormal protein expression or secretion, and thousands of parameters. We are using machine learning to look for correlations between those thousands of data points and outcome. f we develop a blood test in which we could know after a few weeks whether the therapy was working or not, we would be able to adjust therapy in real time and get many more people to a potentially curative surgery.” Minimally Invasive Interventions Dr. Gonda, you are a national leader in endoscopically delivered ablative therapy. Can you tell us more about the promise of this treatment approach? For certain types of tumors of the pancreas and bile ducts, endoscopically delivering thermal ablation or radiofrequency ablation is maturing to be a reasonable treatment approach. While still in the early phases, I think it is going to be an important option for pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and pancreatic premalignant lesions, such as cystic lesions. Prevention is almost uniformly equal to surgical resection of a part or all of the pancreas. Endoscopic therapies, whether ablation or injectional therapies, may offer an alternative to surgical approaches. The promise of a minimally invasive approach, especially for pre-cancerous conditions, is very exciting. This is clearly cutting edge, and what makes this work is that at Perlmutter Cancer Center, we function as a multidisciplinary team. We’re not isolated within our specialties. I would second that. As we try to prove equal efficacy of these new less invasive treatments, it is critically important to be in that multidisciplinary discussion. There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision. “There is no absolute answer to what the right treatment is for some of these patients, and that multidisciplinary discussion is what ultimately leads to the most reasonable and rational decision.” Resecting Complex Tumors Dr. Wolfgang, would you speak to the innovations making it easier to successfully resect complex tumors? In the realm of making the unresectable resectable, there are two aspects: tumor biology and the technical aspects. You can do the perfect complex operation, but if you haven’t considered each patient’s unique tumor biology—that is, the propensity of an individual tumor for microscopic spread throughout the body—you’re not going to help that patient. It’s not necessarily inventing new operations but having an extremely experienced team and pushing the limits of what can be done with surgery in a smart, safe way. The Architecture of Excellent Care NYU Langone Health is now a National Pancreas Foundation Center of Excellence for both pancreatitis and pancreatic cancer. How does this designation influence innovation? As medical centers across the nation build focused pancreatic cancer programs, guidance from the National Pancreas Foundation in what is required for comprehensive care is critically important. Renowned pancreatic cancer experts, Drs. Alex Kimmelman Paul E. Oberstein and Diane M. Simeone, and our numerous colleagues within the , have led the way, and it is exciting that we now offer the same level of multidisciplinary excellence for the care of other pancreatic diseases. Read more from our experts in Tamas A. Gonda, MD, is an associate professor of medicine, chief of endoscopy at Tisch Hospital, and director of the Pancreatic Disease Program within the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. He is an advanced endoscopist and specializes in the management of complex pancreatic and bile duct disease. Christopher Wolfgang, MD, PhD, is professor of surgery and chief of the Division of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery. He specializes in the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. His research focuses on understanding mechanisms of tumor recurrence to prevent treatment failure. Resolution of a Severe Hip Implant Dislocation with Femur Extraction A displaced hip spacer, destabilized by trochanteric fracture, requires close coordination to secure a permanent implant. Pain Management with Buccal Absorption of CBD Tablets Promising results from an early study evaluating CBD after arthroscopic rotator cuff repair. Surveying Cultural Preferences for Toe-to-Thumb Transfer Versus Pollicization Research finds no major differences among Eastern and Western populations and surgeons. A Flexible Surgical Alternative for Adolescent Scoliosis VBT yields better correction of fractional curve and L5 tilt than fusion surgery. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, chief of the Division of Sports Medicine in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, performed a knee arthroscopy with the ArthroFree System to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. Minimally invasive arthroscopic surgery in orthopedics has supplanted more traditional and invasive methods for many procedures, but the technique still relies on wired surgical cameras, light cords, and connected power sources. In September, NYU Langone Health took the next big step in this kind of surgery by successfully completing the first arthroscopy in the United States with an entirely wireless camera system that eliminates the need for the power and light cords. , performed a knee arthroscopy with the advanced technology, the ArthroFree System made by Ohio-based medical technology company Lazurite . The first wireless camera for arthroscopy and general endoscopy had won FDA approval in March 2022. Just six months later, Dr. Jazrawi used the new system at to correct a displaced meniscal fragment causing knee locking in a 65-year-old patient. That patient, he says, recovered very well and was back to enjoying activities such as playing paddleball within two weeks. “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room.” “We’re proud to be the first medical center to use this innovative new technology that allows for more efficiency and flexibility in the operating room,” says Dr. Jazrawi. Among its potential benefits, the system’s elimination of power and light cords can reduce surgical setup and takedown times and costs while permitting more ergonomic and efficient surgical movements. In addition, the absence of fiber-optic cables may improve patient safety by reducing the risk of burns and healthcare-associated infections. “The use of new types of advanced surgical technologies exemplifies our mission to bring patients the most recent advances in orthopedic surgery to improve outcomes and overall satisfaction,” Dr. Jazrawi says. As a follow-up to his first surgery with the wireless camera, Dr. Jazrawi is already enrolling patients in a new clinical study to investigate wireless arthroscopy benefits and capabilities compared to its traditional counterpart. Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA While a second dose of IV dexamethasone slightly raises blood glucose levels in the 24-60 hours after surgery, patients were able to maintain glycemic control, with average glucose levels never exceeding the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications.ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. A second dose of IV dexamethasone lowers patients’ use of opioids, with the most significant differences in the first 48 hours after surgery. ADAPTED FROM: Arraut J, et al. “Effects of A Second Dose of Dexamethasone on Postoperative Glycemic Control in Diabetic Patients Following Primary Total Knee Arthroplasty.” Oral presentation at American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons Annual Meeting. November 2022. For patients with diabetes undergoing a primary total knee arthroplasty (TKA), insufficient glycemic control before, during, and after surgery can lead to complications such as surgical-site infections and poor wound healing. Dexamethasone can reduce postoperative pain, nausea, and vomiting. Like other corticosteroids, however, dexamethasone can increase blood glucose levels, raising concerns about whether a second dose administered to diabetic patients undergoing TKA might complicate their recovery. In a retrospective study of 953 TKA patients, NYU Langone Health researchers found that a second dose of dexamethasone temporarily increased glucose levels compared to only one dose. In both groups of patients, however, average glucose levels never exceeded the 200 mg/dl threshold for postoperative wound complications. Furthermore, the two-dose group consumed fewer opioids in the first 48 hours post-surgery. The study revealed no difference in infection rates, delayed wound healing, or other complications within the 90-day postoperative period. “Using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar.” , won the best podium presentation award at the annual meeting of the American Association of Hip and Knee Surgeons in 2022 for summarizing his team’s initial findings. “My recommendation would be that using dexamethasone for primary total joint replacements, even in diabetic patients, is both safe and effective in reducing pain and reducing inpatient opioid usage without a substantial detrimental effect on maintenance of blood sugar,” he says. Dr. Rozell cautions that diabetic patients must be closely monitored for blood glucose levels. “Clinicians should make sure to utilize a multimodal pain protocol with various non-opioid analgesics that can synergistically work to decrease pain level after surgery,” he adds. The study, he says, affirms that despite its transient effect on glucose control, dexamethasone can be a safe and effective part of that analgesic mix, even for diabetics. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Study shows prior bariatric surgery improves COVID-19 outcomes. Comparing patients who had bariatric surgery (bariatric cases, n = 124) and patients who were eligible but didn’t have bariatric surgery (bariatric controls, n= 496), admission through the emergency department (ED) was 50.8 versus 69.0 percent, ventilation was used for 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, intensive care unit (ICU) admission was 8.1 versus 14.7 percent, length of stay over 1 day was 41.4 versus 59.7 percent, and those deceased at discharge were 6.5 versus 13.7 percent, respectively. ADAPTED FROM: Surg Obes Relat Dis . 2021 Nov;17(11):1840-1845. For patients with severe obesity, bariatric surgery may reduce the risk of hospitalization and death from COVID-19, according to a study published in Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases The retrospective analysis compared outcomes between patients with COVID-19 and a history of bariatric surgery to a matched control cohort of patients with COVID-19 who were eligible for, but with no history of, bariatric surgery. The researchers used a 1:4 cases-to-controls matching ratio based on age and sex. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19.” Among other improved outcomes, prior bariatric surgery was shown to significantly decrease the risk of emergency department admission, mechanical ventilation, prolonged ICU stay, and death after COVID-19 diagnosis. Led by investigators , clinical assistant professor of surgery, and , chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery, the study suggests that protection against COVID-19 may be an extended benefit of bariatric surgery in this vulnerable patient population. “Bariatric surgery is an incredibly safe procedure that provides lasting benefits for patients with severe obesity. And now we show that it can also improve the respiratory and inflammatory factors that likely put patients with obesity at increased risk of severe COVID-19,” Dr. Jenkins says. Megan Jenkins, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery and associate director of the Surgery Residency Program. She specializes in bariatric surgery. Christine J. Ren-Fielding, MD, is a professor of surgery, chief of the Division of Bariatric Surgery and director of the Weight Management Program. Laparoscopic Fibroid Removal in a Patient with Müllerian Agenesis The patient’s uterine remnant, vulnerable to aggressive fibroid growth. Common Fibroids with a Rare Presentation A 44-year-old woman with a recent diagnosis of Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Müllerian agenesis, a rare condition in which the Paramesonephric ducts do not develop in female embryos, is frequently associated with the presence of rudimentary uterine structures or remnants. An examination revealed a 12-centimeter immobile mass over the patient’s lower abdomen. A pelvic MRI—the most sensitive diagnostic tool for identifying uterine remnants—further characterized the presence of a 4-centimeter uterine remnant with three dominant leiomyomas. “Although up to 70 percent of women experience leiomyomas by menopause, only 15 cases have been published for women with uterine remnants,” notes , a minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon subsequently consulted by the patient. Dr. Shirazian serves as director of NYU Langone Health’s . “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” “These cases demonstrate the aggressive pathophysiologic nature of fibroids, which can grow and become symptomatic from just a few myometrial cells.” In light of her worsening symptoms, the patient opted for minimally invasive surgery to definitively manage her condition. A preoperative plan included diagnostic laparoscopy, removal of the uterine remnant with leiomyomas, a bilateral salpingectomy if tubes were noted, and cystoscopy, required by protocol. “Ideally, we want to remove the entire remnant itself, leaving no myometrium for possible recurrence,” says Dr. Shirazian. Following surgery, the patient was discharged on the same day and has experienced complete resolution of symptoms. Importantly, the Center for Fibroid Care offered the patient supportive education and discussion of reproductive options. “Once this patient understood her potential options for assisted reproduction following surgery, she was comfortable proceeding,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Our multidisciplinary approach takes into account the patient’s life goals—which is critical when treating the multi-faceted impact fibroids often have.” Pelvic Imaging Guides Surgical Planning A pelvic MRI shows a uterine remnant impacted by multiple leiomyomas. A patient with Müllerian agenesis presented with worsening lower abdominal fullness and discomfort in the setting of known leiomyomas. Examination revealed a mass over the lower abdomen and pelvic MRI was remarkable for a single rudimentary uterus deviated to the right with three dominant leiomyomas, the largest measuring 5.8 centimeters. Real-Time Surgical Decision-Making with Laparoscopic Survey Pelvic survey reveals an additional uterine remnant. After safe entry was confirmed, a pelvic survey revealed a right uterine remnant with multiple leiomyomas along with an additional left rudimentary uterine remnant and bilateral normal ovaries with atrophic fallopian tubes. To prevent future fibroid growth, the additional remnant would also be removed. Procedure Begins with Bilateral Salpingectomy Surgeon’s view as the fallopian tubes are transected. To begin the procedure, the atrophic fallopian tubes were removed by transecting along their inferior aspect. Symptom-Causing Remnant Is Removed Surgeon’s view as the right rudimentary uterus and its symptomatic leiomyomas are dissected. The avascular plane of the right uterine remnant was transected, then the uterine artery was cauterized and transected. The specimen was rotated to allow transection of the uterine ligament. An Uncomplicated Surgery Resolves Patient Symptoms Surgeon’s view as a smaller, left-side uterine remnant is removed. The left rudimentary uterine horn was then dissected. The specimens were hand morcellated through the umbilical port. Final inspection revealed excellent hemostasis throughout, and the patient was discharged the same day after meeting required milestones. Post-surgery pathology confirmed that neither uterine remnant contained functioning endometrium. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Researchers further confirm the benefit of the endometrium-free uterine closure technique. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy Findings confirm a significant immune responsewhen mothers received an mRNA vaccine. Fewer Women Plan Pregnancy Following First Wave of COVID-19 Significant changes in pregnancy intention reported among mothers of young children in New York City. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology More than 40 years ago, the first annual meeting of the first and only national society of interventional cardiologists, the Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions (SCAI) , was organized—with the creator of coronary angiography at its helm. Today, the subspecialty has evolved to offer patients many more treatment options, and SCAI is led by a new generation of physicians including , director of NYU Langone Health’s interventional cardiology program. Here, Dr. Rao, who is currently serving his term as SCAI president, discusses the state of the subspecialty and efforts underway at SCAI to advance the profession. An Evolving Subspecialty Dr. Rao, so much has changed within the subspecialty since SCAI was established. What excites you the most? Dr. Rao: The most exciting aspect of the profession has always been the same: We see very sick patients, and our expertise gives us the ability to help them feel better immediately. We can visualize a blockage that caused a patient’s heart attack and, 5 or 10 minutes later, their arteries are wide open and they’re asking to go home. There is an instant gratification there. “We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer.” The second thing relates to newer developments: We have more technologies than ever to offer patients—more approved interventions and more clinical trials of new devices and drugs. We’re constantly evolving the field to help patients feel better and live longer. For example, we can treat more complex artery blockages, such as 100 percent occlusions, that in the past were not treatable. We are also able to treat patients with complex valve disease or heart failure using new devices that can help them get back to a normal life. National Leadership: The Next Frontier of Patient Care As president of SCAI, what are your leadership priorities for the society? We’ve placed a strong emphasis on research and education. For the first time in SCAI’s history, we are able to fund original research, with three grants awarded to early-career investigators. Their research will be presented at the next annual meeting. We also implemented a fellowship match program for the first time in interventional cardiology. In addition, our efforts have contributed to several legislative wins, including the Cardiovascular Advances in Research and Opportunities Legacy (CAROL) Act, which funds research to understand and prevent out-of-hospital cardiac arrest. That means strengthening initiatives like community CPR training and increasing the number and availability of automated external defibrillators (AEDs). What priorities are next? My utmost priority is to remain at the forefront of trends in patient care. Thanks to innovation in our field, procedures like coronary stenting are moving to the outpatient setting. More than 16 states have endorsed the procedure at ambulatory centers, which is a more patient-centered approach. The challenge is there are still risks to the procedure, so we developed a set of safeguards for quality in the ambulatory setting. SCAI is also at the leading edge of aligning payment with these evolutions in care. Second, we’re putting an increased spotlight on physician wellbeing. Alongside patient risks in the context of cardiac procedures, there are well-known occupational hazards for physicians and providers. Radiation risks, physical demands, and the psychological burden of treating very sick patients all take a toll. For us at SCAI, the question is how do we sustain our members in their careers and support their health and wellbeing? Closer to Home: A Uniquely Personal Approach Looking closer to home at NYU Langone, what are you most proud of accomplishing in your interventional cardiology program? My answer touches on the paradox of being a high-volume center that offers an incredibly personalized approach to care. Our teams at our Cardiac Catheterization Laboratories perform more than 14,000 a year. And we offer all of the best, most advanced technologies and approaches, like radial access, that have made our procedures safer and more effective. Yet on an individual level, the way we treat patients is incredibly personal. With each patient, we work with our noninvasive cardiology and surgery colleagues to figure out the right care at the right time. If that requires an interventional treatment, we will deliver what may be a widely available procedure with a personalized approach that you can only find here. Sunil Rao, MD, is the director of interventional cardiology at NYU Langone Health and director of the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory at Tisch Hospital. His research is focused on the application of radial access interventions to reduce patient risk and improve outcomes. Surgical Reconstruction Resolves Cloaca-Like Deformity After Obstetric Trauma Endoanal ultrasound indicates the degree of separation of the external (EAS) and internal anal sphincters (IAS). Yellow dash marks indicate dehiscence of the sphincter complex 150 degrees. Three Surgeons Collaborate to Repair Rare Traumatic Cloaca A woman in her 40s presented with fecal incontinence subsequent to a fourth-degree laceration during vaginal delivery in her home country. The patient had seen several providers without relief prior to travel to the United States, where she was referred for urogynecology consultation with Christina M. Escobar, MD . Examination revealed an open defect in the perineal body, anal sphincter complex, and rectovaginal septum, with no rectal tone. Traumatic cloaca is