as well as any assistive devices needed. The nurse CCC also provides education about what to expect post surgery, including length of stay in the hospital, medications, homecare, and other topics related to discharge planning. Referrals to homecare services are made based on patient choice and in advance of surgery. Low Income People Although none of the stakeholders identified as low income, all the patients expressed concerns about the current cost of getting to NYU Langone in Manhattan and how these costs become more prohibitive for low income populations. One patient discussed how the new ambulatory service needs to have access to a bus line, which is available at the new proposed location. The patient said: “They’d [NYU Langone] have to look at the bus lines because people of low income aren’t going to take Ubers or cabs. There has to be a bus line or something if you’re looking at the access for low income patients.” (Patient 4). The patient also acknowledged that low income patients would have limited means to get to Manhattan for orthopedic services, but the Westchester location would provide more access to care: “People who were low income probably wouldn’t go into the city because of transportation costs would be too great and they’re not taking public transportation because they’re having surgery. So, I think it makes it easier for the low income patients.” (Patient 4). Another patient confirmed the need for localized services for patients who are low income and who have disabilities. They explained: “It would draw them there initially, but if what they need done and have to find out they have to go in the city, it is for naught. They went there because they can’t go in the city. If disabled or too poor, would be drawn there to use the services, but find out what they can’t be done…so then what happens.” (Patient 6). September 2024 17 Highlighting both the convenience the proposed location would offer for drop off at the entrance and the reduction in cost of transport to the city, one patient said: “Somebody is driving, and you pull up, drop off, and keep going and try to find parking. So there’s no valet parking for either one of those hospitals that I’ve gone to…There’s no pay for parking here [Westchester] next to the office. Literally in New York City, it costs me probably $35, $40 to park every time or I take a limo that costs me $150.” (Patient 2). The Director of Social Work also highlighted that transportation would need to be discussed with patients so they are not stuck with a cost. Finally, an FQHC primary care physician discussed the importance of access and hours for patients that are low income or housing insecure: “For patients that work and can’t take off work, the hours can be problematic if there are no evening hours or Saturdays hours for those that work and don’t have paid time off, that could be a challenge...again, sometimes for our patients that are homeless or unstably housed, their ability to get to and have transportation issues. Their ability to get to the appointment sometimes is a barrier.” (PrimaryCare Physician). The Applicant verified multiple mechanisms to assist patients who need transportation support and/or who cannot afford it. These include staff access to an online portal to arrange for transportation for patients who have Medicaid, care management staff support, information about medical escort services and transportation options, and charitable funds. Persons Living in Rural Areas One patient, who identified as living in a rural area, spoke specifically about the need to have access to these services closer to home. They said: “Where I come from, there's limited resources… but dealing with NYU has been a very good experience…The quality of the doctors as far as the care that I received if, they can duplicate that in White Plains, it's a home run.” (Patient 8). 12. Relevant community members that did not participate: Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits and who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage September 2024 18 Although we did not talk with any Medicaid, uninsured, or underinsured patients and the payor mix is expected to remain the same, these medically underserved groups may be impacted. An FQHC primary care provider mentioned that her patients’ insurance status is a barrier for accessing orthopedic surgeries. She suggested that the newly proposed orthopedic ambulatory center should take multiple insurances. Specifically, she discussed: “I think if it [new orthopedic ambulatory center] takes a wide variety of insurances, and if it takes the Medicaid managed care plans, it will be an added resources, so that is a good thing.” (Primary Care Physician). The following medically underserved groups did not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the HEIA: • Low income people • Immigrant • Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and other than cisgender people • People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage • People who are eligible for or receive Medicaid coverage STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. Effective communication of services or care (language access): If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a) People of limited English speaking ability b) People with speech, hearing, or visual impairments c) If the applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? Information provided by the Applicant indicates that they will communicate its services and care options to the patients and community using a standard, multi pronged advertising/communication plan. For individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant has the ability to translate relevant materials as needed such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage. There will be a targeted marketing campaign in Westchester County announcing the opening of the facility and services offered. A letter will be sent to existing patients notifying of the opening. Clinic staff—both surgeons and front desk staff—will also be communicating the details of this new facility at patient appointments well before it takes effect. Current clinic staff will also alert patients as they call for appointments and when they are at their appointments in the current clinic prior to the opening. September 2024 19 The Applicant advertising/communication plan will also include outreach to specific print publications in Westchester County, such as the Journal News, Yorktown PennySaver, and Examiner Media. The Applicant will update their website with information about the new facility and post on social media as well. (Note that these are mainly in English.) Regarding individuals who have speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant uses digital best practices for accessibility that are informed by the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) version 2.2, the industry standard to ensure users with disabilities (such as vision, cognitive/learning, and/or motor disabilities) can access content equitably. This approach includes providing alternative text for images, captions for videos, and ensuring that all digital content is navigable via keyboard for those who cannot use a mouse. 2. Suggested project changes to better meet medically underserved group needs: What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? The Independent Entity and stakeholders had the following suggestions for how the project can meet their needs as they considered the impact of the project: Ensuring access through referral partnerships There was a concern that county residents of some underserved groups will face a critical barrier to accessing care at this site due to the challenge of getting a primary care appointment from which they could be referred for orthopedic services. Both the Health Commissioner and the NYU Langone’s Director of Social Work spoke about the importance of establishing relationships with FQHCs near the proposed ambulatory service center to try to provide better access to underserved populations given FQHC’s role in serving these populations. There are three FQHCs operating multiple locations in Westchester County: Open Door Family Medical Centers, Sun River Health, and Westchester Community Health Centers. The Independent Entity interviewed a physician from Sun River Health who indicated that they have existing capacity for primary care appointments and a willingness to refer patients for services at the new site. The Applicant can leverage their peri operative surgical home (POSH) Coordinator, who has established relationships with various NYU providers to ensure that patients receive appointments for specialist care, including assisting with needed clearance before surgery. Communicating and assisting with supportive services and financing options Stakeholders expressed the need for access to supportive services leading up to and following their surgeries, such as those related to transportation needs. One stakeholder also identified the need for low income people to have financing options, which the September 2024 20 Applicant currently provides. The Applicant should broadly communicate the availability of those services and supports to potential and existing patients and ensure that staff are able to use existing mechanisms to assist patients and their caregivers. One stakeholder also suggested developing partnerships with local pharmacies and car services. Communicate existing imaging, testing, and rehabilitation services at the location and develop additional resources onsite or in the area Some patients described having to travel long distances to Manhattan to complete testing either before or after orthopedic surgery and expressed a desire to have everything they need for pre operation and follow up appointments onsite. This will help alleviate barriers associated with the time, cost, and difficulty of travel. The Applicants indicated that, although they are not Article 28 services and not in scope for this Certificate of Need, they have plans for physical therapy and some imaging services in the same building. They also have plans for additional imaging sites in Westchester County in development. As these services become available, they should communicate about them to all existing patients, to referral partners, and through other marketing and communication methods. For any services they will not provide, they should coordinate access to other local services. Engaging community members on project changes: How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The Independent Entity recommends the Applicant conduct periodic surveys (at least 6 months and 9 months after the opening of the location) with existing patients receive services at the new Westchester location. This will enable the Applicant to assess the impact of the project and make improvements. The Independent Entity recommends that the Applicant emphasize survey outreach to medically underserved groups who were not included in this assessment and conduct interviews to capture nuanced perspectives of the impact of the project. The Independent Entity also proposes interviewing referral partners to assess the ease at which they are able to refer patients, have them seen in a timely fashion, and get their orthopedic needs met. 3. Addressing systemic barriers to equitable access: How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? This project addresses systemic barriers to equitable access to care by providing services locally, which will increase access to orthopedic care for some patients that September 2024 21 would not otherwise be able to access it at all or without significant burdens. As a location close to their home, the Westchester location would eliminate or reduce some transportation costs (e.g., gas, tolls, parking, etc.) for patients. STEP 4 MONITORING 1. Existing mechanisms and measures to monitor impacts: What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the Orthopedics department and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnic background, gender/gender identity, age group, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. NYULH plans to leverage this dashboard and data, as it does throughout its various projects, to reveal and address inequities and disparities. The Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYULH captures and measures a variety of outcome measures that can be analyzed by various demographic factors such as race, ethnicity, age, gender, payer, and primary language. The Applicant is able to identify health disparities in outcome metrics such as orthopedics mortality rate, mortality events, 30 day readmissions, and observed to expected length of stay. Specifically, the Department of Orthopedic Surgery focuses on mortality, length of stay, readmissions, and discharge to home measures in orthopedic procedures such as knee replacement, hip replacement, hip fracture, and spinal fusion. Additionally, the Department of Orthopedic Surgery keeps track of outcomes and metrics related to external organizations such as U.S. News and World Report, CMS, and Leapfrog. To oversee departmental initiatives aimed at reducing health disparities and increasing health equity, the department appointed a Vice Chair of Equity and Inclusion in the Department of Orthopedics. 2. Potential mechanisms and measures Applicant can put in place to monitor impacts: What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant might consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the State, the Applicant can rework their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific medically September 2024 22 underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and the State are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant may also consider continuously engaging with patients receiving services, referral partners, and community groups to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. This will help ensure the success of this project and inform future projects of a similar nature. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant will publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: ADDITIONAL COMMENTS FROM THE INDEPENDENT ENTITY In 250 words or less, provide any additional points of information the Independent Entity feels is relevant to the proposed project. Add any relevant information that was not asked about in the Template but was found through the development of the Health Equity Impact Assessment. SECTION BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY THE APPLICANT SECTION C. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN Acknowledgment by the Applicant that the Health Equity Impact Assessment was reviewed by the facility leadership before submission to the Department. This section is to be completed by the Applicant, not the Independent Entity. I. Acknowledgement I, ________________, attest that I have reviewed the Health Equity Impact Assessment for the __________________ that has been prepared by the Independent Entity, Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC. ______________________________________ Name ______________________________________ Title ______________________________________ Signature ___________________ Date II. Mitigation Plan If the project is approved, how has or will the Applicant mitigate any potential negative impacts to medically underserved groups identified in the Health Equity Impact Assessment? (1000 words max) Please note: this narrative must be made available to the public and posted conspicuously on the Applicant’s website until a decision on the application has been made. Joseph J. LhotaWestchester ASCJoseph J. LhotaSep 25, 2024Executive Vice President and Vice Dean, Chief of Staff, ChiefFinancial Officer September 2024 24 Westchester ASC Mitigation Plan Through the implementation of this project, NYULH aims to enhance the patient experience and ensure patients are receiving the superior care that they deserve. While the HEIA highlighted some potential concerns from stakeholders, NYULH would like to reiterate it is very early in the planning process and is able to give all concerns strong consideration. Regarding imaging, testing, and rehab services onsite, the proposed ambulatory surgery center does have plans for some imaging services (X ray) and physical therapy on the third floor of the same building. As these will not be Article 28, they were not in the scope of the HEIA / CON. Additionally, there are plans for additional imaging sites in Westchester County that are under development. There will also be basic testing onsite, as lab work can be sent out from the new ASC location. NYULH is committed to ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and will continue to incorporate feedback throughout the planning and implementation processes. Currently, patients undergoing elective joint replacement surgery are assessed by a nurse clinical care coordinator to determine any support services they may require post procedure, improving recovery outcomes. Furthermore, to better serve medically underserved groups, our perioperative surgical home coordinators and providers intend to establish more relationships with nearby FQHCs in the future. This will help address any gaps in care and provide resources and support to those in need. Although we are still in the early stages of planning, we will constantly assess our operating hours to determine if it is feasible to include evening and weekend hours to ensure greater access and flexibility for patients. Lastly, NYULH offers ample financial resources available for patients should they need financial assistance. (The Independent Entity reviewed NYULH’s Financial Assistance and Charity Care Policy extensively and referenced this in the Health Equity Impact Assessment).