Page 1 of 3 Frequently Asked Questions for NYU Langone Health SendSafe Email Recipients 1. How do I register with SendSafe to receive encrypted email? Upon receipt of your first encrypted email from NYU Langone Health sender, you will receive an email notification with a link directing you to register with SendSafe. The one time registration process requires you to create a passphrase* and to choose a delivery option. All future email deliveries will be dependent on your delivery option choice. Afterwards, you will automatically be taken to your SendSafe inbox. *Recipients must create a unique passphrase for the SendSafe email and messaging system. The passphrase should be different form the passphrase used to access NYU Langone Health’s network. 2. What should I do if I have difficulty registering for or accessing SendSafe? First, make sure you have carefully followed all the steps in the “Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients” found on our public website at https://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/sendsafe email. If the problem persists, you should contact your email sender who will assist with troubleshooting your issue with our Medical Center Information Technology Department. 3. What is the difference between "Web Email" and "PDF Email" delivery options? If you choose the default "SendSafe Secure Web Email" delivery option, you will receive an email notification in your personal email inbox that an encrypted email is waiting for you in your SendSafe inbox. The notification provides a link that directs you to the SendSafe log on page. After logging on, you are able to access, read, and reply to the email securely. This option is supported on desktops, laptops, and mobile devices. If you choose the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option *, you will receive email with an encrypted PDF. When downloading the PDF, you will be required to enter your SendSafe passphrase. After the download, you are able to access, read, and reply from your personal email. This option works on desktop and laptop computers, as well as mobile devices with Adobe Reader X or later version. The free download is available at http://adobe.com/reader. This delivery option is tested to work on the iPhone and iPad. For more detailed instructions on using this feature, please refer to the Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients found on our public website at https://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/sendsafe email. *Reminder: When using the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option, changing your passphrase will require you to remember your old passphrase for all prior encrypted PDFs. 4. How do I change delivery options? Visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox with your email address and passphrase. Click the "Settings" button located at the upper right hand corner of you screen. This will direct you to the delivery options page where you are able to choose between "SendSafe Secure Web Email" or "SendSafe Secure PDF Attachment." Page 2 of 3 5. What should I do if I forgot my passphrase? You cannot retrieve a forgotten passphrase, but you are able to reset your passphrase. For both delivery options, visit the SendSafe log on page at https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and click on "I lost my passphrase" to reset your passphrase. After resetting your passphrase, you will be taken to your SendSafe inbox, where you are able to access your emails. All future email deliveries will be dependent on your previously selected delivery option choice. 6. After clicking on "I lost my passphrase," I am directed to the login page. What should I do? Close your browser and click, "I lost my passphrase." This will take you to the passphrase reset page. 7. How do I change my passphrase? Visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox. Click "Settings" located on the upper right hand corner of the screen and you will be directed to the delivery options page. The link "Change My passphrase" is available at the bottom of the page. *Reminder: When using the "SendSafe Secure PDF Email" delivery option, changing your passphrase will require you to remember your old passphrase for all prior encrypted PDFs. 8. I reset my passphrase and now I cannot open prior PDFs. What should I do? You must remember your passphrase to open encrypted PDFs. Encrypted PDFs can only be opened with the original passphrase, i.e., the passphrase used before resetting it. It is likely that you have forgotten your old passphrase but to access encrypted PDF content, visit https://sendsafe.nyumc.org and log on to your SendSafe inbox. A copy of the PDF is accessible from your SendSafe inbox for 30 days from the date of receipt. 9. How long are emails and copies of emails retained in the SendSafe inbox? Emails will expire and be deleted from your SendSafe inbox 30 days from the date of receipt. The SendSafe inbox is not a repository; therefore, if you need a record of the email, you must take action prior to the 30 days. 10. I tried to send a message using SendSafe Secure Web Email and this error appeared: "The following addresses were not in the original receipt list and are not managed by the SendSafe Secure Email Message Center Server." If you are replying to a message, you can only send it to people who were on the original message's recipient list. If you are writing a new message, you can only send messages to people with NYU Langone Health email addresses. 11. I tried to log on to SendSafe but received this error message, "Authentication Failure." What should I do? Two versions of this error message may display. 1) "Authentication Failure, the credentials that you have supplied are incorrect. Please try again." This message will display if you mistyped your email address or passphrase. If you are Page 3 of 3 certain that your email address and passphrase are correct, close all open browsers and try again. 2) "Authentication Failure, a Web Messenger session has already been opened for this account from the address: 12.3456.67.89. Please log out of the other session and try again." This message will display if multiple sessions are open or multiple users are trying to log on to the same account at the same time. Only one session is able to be open and one user is able to access an account at any given time. 12. What is the SendSafe mailbox size? The SendSafe mailbox size is 250 MB. 13. I'm trying to send or read a message in SendSafe, and I have received this error message: "??? message.not.available.header ???" What should I do? This message is caused by one of the following scenarios: 1) A NYU Langone Health user is sending an encrypted email with the recipient's email address in all CAPS. In this case, close your browser, and login directly to the SendSafe system at https://sendsafe.nyumc.org/b/l.e using your email address and passphrase. Do not try clicking on the Compose button in your Outlook email, as this will cause a second error message. In the SendSafe system, resend your email message using all lowercase letters for your email recipients. 2) An external user is accessing SendSafe using Internet Explorer (IE)10. Due to a recent Microsoft update that causes issues with certain web applications, reading a SendSafe email in IE10 will cause this error. To verify which version of IE you're using, click on the word "Help" in your Internet Explorer toolbar, then select "About Internet Explorer" from the drop down menu. A pop up screen will appear, indicating the version of IE on your computer. To read your SendSafe email, close your IE10 browser, and open another browser such as Firefox or Chrome to access your SendSafe email.


Page 1 of 4 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Sensitive PHI Policy NYU Langone Health is committed to maintaining the privacy and confidentiality of its patients’ Protected Health Information (“PHI”). This includes extra protection for sensitive health information, including: Confidential HIV Related Information, Psychotherapy Notes, alcohol and substance abuse treatment information, and genetic information. In most circumstances other than for Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operation purposes, a patient’s written Authorization is required before Disclosing these types of sensitive PHI. Use and Disclosure is permitted whenever a proper Authorization is signed. However, there are exceptions for when sensitive PHI may be Used and Disclosed without an Authorization. 1. Confidential HIV Related Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization, including but not limited to, the following circumstances: • to provide a patient with direct care or treatment, • to process billing or reimbursement records, including third party payors, • to monitor or evaluate the quality of care, • to another health facility or provider that requires the information in order to provide appropriate care or treatment to the patient, • to the patient’s Personal Representative or someone who is legally authorized to consent for the patient, when the patient lacks capacity, and the information is relevant to that person fulfilling such a health care decision making role, • to an organization that procures body parts for transplantation, medical education, therapy, or research, • when required by law or court order, including to a health officer, • for certain public health purposes, and • to an employee or agent of a correctional facility. Disclosures, except as listed below, of Confidential HIV Related Information must be accompanied by a statement prohibiting the redisclosure of such information. Exceptions include Disclosures to (i) the patient, (ii) by a physician to a public health officer, or (iii) by a physician to a person authorized to consent to health care for a patient. Page 2 of 4 All Disclosures of Confidential HIV Related Information must include a notation in the medical record, except for the following: • only initial Disclosures to insurance institutions must be noted, • Disclosures to NYU Langone Health Workforce Members as permitted, and • Disclosures to persons engaged in quality assurance, program monitoring or evaluation, or for governmental payment agents acting pursuant to contract or law. 2. Psychotherapy Notes Psychotherapy Notes are distinguished from other mental health records. Use and Disclosure of Psychotherapy Notes are permitted without Authorization, in the following circumstances: • for Use by the originator of the note for treatment, • to share with students, trainees, or practitioners in mental health who are learning under the supervision of notes’ author, to practice or improve their skills in a group, joint, family, or individual counseling, • to medical examiners and coroners, if necessary to determine cause of death, • to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, if the agency requests them in order to investigate compliance with privacy and confidentiality laws and regulations, • to defend the notes’ author, NYU Langone Health, or affiliate in a legal proceeding, initiated by the patient, • as required by law and limited to the relevant requirements of such law, and • to avert a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of the patient or another person. In general, a patient does not have a right of access to inspect and obtain a copy of Psychotherapy Notes. See Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI policy for additional information. 3. Alcohol and Substance Abuse Treatment Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization in the following circumstances: • within NYU Langone Health, to provide a patient with diagnosis, Treatment, or referral for alcohol or substance abuse Treatment, • within NYU Langone Health to process billing or reimbursement records, • to monitor or evaluate the quality of care provided, • when required by a court order, and • in a medical emergency, to medical personnel. Unlike Confidential HIV Related Information, Disclosure is NOT permitted to a third party payor until a proper Authorization is signed for alcohol and substance abuse treatment information. 4. Genetic Information Use and Disclosure is only permitted in the following circumstances: • for providing Treatment, • pursuant to a valid Authorization, and • if required by law, including but not limited to: Page 3 of 4  to establish parentage,  to determine metabolic disorders in a newborn,  to furnish information related to a decedent to the blood relatives for the purpose of medical diagnosis,  in connection with a criminal investigation or prosecution,  for identifying the individual or human remains, or  if otherwise required by a specific state or federal court order. 5. Reproductive Health Information Use and Disclosure is permitted without an Authorization in the following circumstances: • to provide a patient with direct care or treatment, • to process billing or reimbursement records, including third party payors, • to another health facility or provider that requires the information in order to provide appropriate care or treatment to the patient, • to the patient’s Personal Representative or someone who is legally authorized to consent for the patient, when the patient lacks capacity, and the information is relevant to that person fulfilling such a health care decision making role, Unlike Confidential HIV Related Information, Disclosure is NOT permitted for the following purposes until a signed HIPAA Reproductive Health Attestation is received from the requestor stating that the use or disclosure is not for a prohibited purpose. • Health Oversight Activities (this includes providing information to entities who request PHI to ensure compliance with applicable regulations), • Judicial and Administrative Proceedings (e.g. in response to an order of a court or administrative tribunal, subpoena, discovery request, or other lawful process), • Law Enforcement Purposes (e.g. a request from law enforcement for PHI), • Disclosures to coroners and medical examiners. All other Uses and Disclosures of these types of Sensitive PHI must be made only pursuant to a valid Authorization. Related Documents General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Uses and Disclosures of PHI Requiring Patient Authorization HIPAA Reproductive Health Attestation Legal Reference Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA) New York State Public Health Law §18 Page 4 of 4 New York State Mental Hygiene Law §33.16 New York Public Health Law §2782 45 C.F.R.§164.508 45 C.F.R.§164.524 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


The Spiritual Care Team at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island is intentional in creating an atmosphere of warmth, hospitality, and respect. Our aim is to care for you as a whole person ? mind, body, and spirit. We make every effort to provide you and your family with the support you need during your stay with us. Our ultimate goal is to immerse your patient experience with affirmation and hope. ZOur Spiritual Care TeamNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care We have a team of chaplains, priests, rabbis, imams, volunteers, and community clergy from many faith traditions who offer emotional and spiritual support 24 hours a day, seven days a week.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care DirectorThe Reverend Karen JonesRev. Jones has led NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island?s spiritual care team since 2011, and is ordained and endorsed by American Baptist Churches USA. She received her master?s degree in Christian education with an emphasis in pastoral care and family ministry from Scarritt Graduate School in Tennessee, and her master?s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Rev. Jones completed her clinical chaplaincy training at Beth Israel Medical Center and a year of residency at New York Presbyterian Brooklyn Methodist Hospital, where she was also a staff chaplain. She previously worked as director of field education at Union Theological Seminary and served as a pastor of congregational care. Rev. Jones is a member of the Association of Professional Chaplains and the Spiritual Care Association.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care Staff ChaplainsSister Mary C. ChikezieStaff ChaplainSister Chikezie is a Roman Catholic nun in the Daughters of Mary Mother of Mercy congregation and a board certified chaplain with the Association of Professional Chaplains. She received her master?s degree in philosophy from St. Thomas Aquinas University in Italy and moved to the United States in 2006. Sister Chikezie completed her clinical pastoral education residency at Valley Baptist Hospital in Texas. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, she worked as an instructor at St. Joseph and St. Peter Seminary in Texas, and served as chaplain at Rio Grande Hospital in Colorado, and staff chaplain at Mercy Hospital in Texas.The Reverend Jayan DanielStaff Chaplain Rev. Daniel received his master?s degree in arts from Madras University and his master?s degree in divinity from Church on the Rock Theological Seminary, both located in India. He was introduced to chaplaincy in the United States, and completed his clinical chaplaincy training at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island and a year of residency with Eger Lutheran Homes and Services in Staten Island, New York. Rev. Daniel currently serves as pastor at Living Water Church in Bellerose, New York.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care Gareth BryantAssociate Chaplain and ImamGareth Bryant has been a chaplain and imam since 2014. He received his bachelor?s degree in political science from Touro College. Chaplain Bryant completed his clinical pastoral education training at the College of Pastoral Supervision and Psychotherapy in Manhattan and his chaplaincy residency at St. John?s Episcopal Hospital in Queens.The Reverend Brenda Denise FordAssociate Chaplain Rev. Ford received her master?s degree in community health administration from Long Island University and her master?s degree in divinity from Union Theological Seminary. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Rev. Ford served as chaplain at Stony Brook Medicine, where she completed her clinical chaplaincy training. She also served as chaplain at Nassau County Correctional Center, Northwell Health, and the First Episcopal District Annual Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Church in Smithtown, New York. Rev. Ford is currently the protestant spiritual life chaplain Health Ministries Association, and director at Stony Brook University and is a member of the Association of Professional Chaplains, the Association for Chaplaincy and Spiritual Life in Higher Education, the American College Health Association.Sangeeta GnanaseelanDepartment Secretary Before relocating to the United States from India, Ms. Gnanaseelan worked in the hospitality industry. She received a bachelor?s degree in hotel management and Microsoft certifications from the National Institute of Information Technology in India. Ms. Gnanaseelan was led to NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island by her enthusiasm for supporting spiritual care and education in our community. She provides administrative support to our department, and is the liaison between the spiritual care team and hospital leadership.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care The Reverend Damian UmeokekeRoman Catholic Priest Father Umeokeke is ordained by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nnewi in Nigeria. He received his master?s degree in pastoral theology from St. John?s University in New York, and completed his chaplaincy training at NYC Health + Hospitals/ Queens and Beth Israel Medical Center in New York. Before joining NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island, Father Umeokeke served as pastor at Beth Israel Medical Center and Elliot Hospital in New Hampshire. He serves NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre.Father Yesudas EliasRoman Catholic PriestFather Yesudas Elias is a Roman Catholic priest who belongs to the member of the ?Order of the Imitation of Christ?, also known as Bethany Congregation, India. He received his Master of Philosophy degree in History and Master of Arts degrees in Psychology and Education from Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, India. His journey in pastoral care began with studies intheology and philosophy at Jnana Deepa Vidyapeeth Papel seminary, Pune, India, where he honed his understanding of spiritual principles and pastoral practices. With a strong background in Psychology, he approaches his work with a comprehensive understanding of human and emotional well being. He has completed his clinical pastoral education at Rockville Health Center, New York. He serves NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island under the endorsement of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rockville Centre.ZNYU Langone Hospital? Long IslandDepartment of Spiritual Care RabbiRabbi Anchelle PerlHospital RabbiRabbi Perl has been the spiritual leader of Congregation Beth Sholom Chabad Mineola since 1990 and director of the National Committee for Furtherance of Jewish Education on Long Island since 1974. He is also a chaplain at the Nassau County Correctional Center in East Meadow, New York, and host of ?Jewish Talk,? a weekly radio program and podcast on 90.3 FM WHPC. Rabbi Perl joined the spiritual care team at NYU Langone Hospital? Long Island in 1990, and focuses on the spiritual needs of patients and their families and the entire staff.


NYU Langone Orthopedic Center333 East 38th Street, 5th FloorNew York, NY 10016Contact Us Call us at 646 501 7109 or email sportsperformancecenter@nyulangone.org to schedule an appointment.Upper Extremity Return to Sports Evaluationat NYU Langone healthSports Performance CenterCustomized ProgramThis comprehensive evaluation includes the following assessments:•WRIST, ELBOW AND SHOULDER MOBILITY •DYNAMIC STABILITY•UPPER BODY STRENGTH•FUNCTIONAL PERFORMANCEPersonalized Final ReportYou receive a 30 minute review of any deficits and a periodized exercise program tailored to your needs. We share our findings with your physician to help them determine your readiness to return to sports.Our TeamOur clinicians possess advanced degrees, specialty certifications, and unique expertise in upper extremity sports injuries and return to sports. Team member certifications include:•Board Certified Specialist in Sports Physical Therapy (SCS)• Board Certified Specialist in Orthopaedic Physical Therapy (OCS)• Registered Clinical Exercise Physiologist (RCEP)• Certified Strength and Conditioning Specialist (CSCS)• Specialized Occupational TherapistsReturn to Sports Evaluation After Upper Extremity Injury Designed to advise recreational and competitive athletes if they are ready to return to sports following their completion of rehab for an upper extremity injury.