Instruments • Pressure differential switches installed in the discharge of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan, which sense discharge pressure, shall stop the fan and transmit an alarm to the operator workstation if the pressure set point of the switch is exceeded. • A separate pressure switch installed in the inlet of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan shall also stop the fan and transmit the alarm if fan suction pressure is below its set point. • Pressure switches shall be automatic reset type. • The fan shutdown shall be operative whether the variable frequency drive Hand Off Inverter Bypass switch is in the Inverter, Bypass or Hand position. • Individual alarms (high and low) will be activated at the workstation. • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Air) by Application: Static Pressure in Ducts Flow tracking terminal units (Supply, Exhaust, Fume Hood VAVs) • General o Size for unidirectional pressure range rating of at least 150 expected maximum nominal operating pressure. E.g. For VAV pitot sensors nominally 0 1 in WC DP, select a 0 2 in WC range. o Select Accuracy class based on criticality and operating tolerance of the application. o Output: 4 20mA • Product o Manufacturer & model: Ashcroft CLXdp NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 558 2024 • Static Pressure Probes (Air) by Application: Duct static pressure probes • General o Duct static pressure measurement requires two probes, one for the measurement in the duct, specified below, and one for reference measurement. Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that minimizes effects of air disturbances to maintain a stable reference pressure. o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. o Probe penetration into duct must be sealed to prevent air leakage. • Products o Manufacturer & model: Kele A 301K or A 302 K • Execution o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. o Probe penetration into duct must be sealed to prevent air leakage. • Pressure Sensors & Transmitters By Application Duct static pressure sensors & transmitters • General o Duct static pressure sensor & transmitter assemblies shall consist of a static pressure probe, transmitter and electrical box for wiring connections. o The static pressure probe shall extend across the width of the duct. o Reference pressure sensing connections to duct static pressure transmitters shall be made through an ambient pressure probe or chamber that shall minimize effects of air disturbances and maintain a steady, uniform reference pressure. o Transmitter range shall be selected to ensure that the normal set point is in the center of the device range. o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. • Products o Probe Manufacturer & model: ? o Transducer Manufacturer & model: Setra Model 264 • Execution NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 559 2024 o Duct wall pressure taps shall be acceptable. • Differential Pressure Transmitters (Water/Glycol) General • Signal output shall be selected for 4 20mA • Transmitter shall be enclosed in a gasketed, dust free and water tight housing. • Any enclosure exposed to the process fluid shall be equipped with drain ports at the bottom and vent ports at the top with a minimum 1/4' 18 NPT • Process fluid connection to transmitter shall be provided with a 3 valve manifold Product • Transmitter make/model: Rosemount Model 2051C • Manifold make/model: Anderson Greenwood & Co. Model MDP • Differential Pressure Switches (Air) General • High and low sensing ports shall be ferrule and nut compression for 1/4 in OD tubing. • All switches shall be automatic reset type. • Switch shall be provided with SPST NC contacts rated for 15A, 125 277 VAC. Product • Manufacturer: Cleveland Controls • Model: AFS Series • Room Pressure Monitors General • Room pressure monitor shall include a bidirectional pressure sensor and wall mounted digital interface module. Room pressure monitoring shall utilize differential pressure sensing technology to display the respective room’s differential pressure with reference to the entrance corridor. o Differential pressure transmitter accuracy shall be ± of reading (± 0.00001 in. H20) and shall be bidirectional. • Monitors shall be provided with door sensors to disable alarms if the door is open. o Provide a door position switch for each door serving the room, wired in series. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 560 2024 • Room pressure monitor shall be designed to provide room pressure operating and alarm status, alarm indication and acknowledgment functions. Alarm set points and time delays, prior to alarming, shall be programmable. Once the alarm condition ceases to exist, the alarm and mute functions are reset automatically. • Status indicators shall be green for normal and red for alarm. Room pressure monitoring shall include audible alarm. • Monitor shall be provided with a silence pushbutton to deactivate the alarm horn during an alarm condition. • Room pressure monitor shall be located outside of room served at entrance door. • Provide a local alarm light, horn and silence switch located within the room served. Horn and light shall be activated if a door is maintained in the open position for a continuous 3 minute time period. Silence switch shall allow the user to silence the horn; however, the light shall remain energized until the door is closed. • If project has multiple rooms requiring pressure monitoring, monitoring shall be capable from one monitor. Multiple room monitoring only applies to auxiliary rooms not separate rooms or Operating Rooms/OR support spaces. Product • The following manufacturer product lines are acceptable. Match the manufacturer to existing adjacent spaces. o Critical Room Control o TSI Pressura o Setra Flex Execution • Room pressure monitor shall be located outside of room served at entrance door. • Provide a local alarm light, horn and silence switch located within the room served. Horn and light shall be activated if a door is maintained in the open position for a continuous 3 minute time period. Silence switch shall allow the user to silence the horn; however, the light shall remain energized until the door is closed. • If project has multiple rooms requiring pressure monitoring, monitoring shall be capable from one monitor. Multiple room monitoring only applies to auxiliary rooms not separate rooms or Operating Rooms/OR support spaces. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 561 2024 f. Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensors General • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be 1/10th DIN RTDsSensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. Product • Where not specified elsewhere, RTD temperature elements shall be manufactured by o ACI o BAPI Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Combos by Application: Duct mounted averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of duct area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 562 2024 o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Preheat coil discharge sensors • General o Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors o Probe length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. If sensing probe is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. o A weather resistant electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Coil mounted averaging sensors must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be mounted as close to the leaving side of the preheat coil without touching the coil, fins or framing. o Capillary shall be fastened utilizing capillary holder mounting clip (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to sensor and ensure appropriate radius bend where sensor changes direction. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 563 2024 o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the averaging sensor minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary or averaging sensor can be replaced without removing multiple devices. Duct mounted non averaging type • General o Probe length shall be 18" or half the width of the duct. o A NEMA 3R electrical box shall be used to contain all wiring connections. o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K 2W D 18 Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Sensors for duct locations shall not be affected by vibrations encountered in normal duct systems. Liquid insertion type • Product o RTD Element: ACI Model A/1K Series o Transmitter: Kele T85U • Execution o Mount sensor in a thermowell with #" #" gap between the end of the sensor and the end of the thermowell. The void between the two shall be filled with thermal grease. • Freezestats General • Low Air Temperature Thermostats for Air (freezestats) shall be sized to provide complete coil coverage as defined below to ensure each coil has one or more dedicated switches and no two coils share a temperature switch. o The coil area must be covered by freezestats leaving 6 inches from each edge of the coil. o The maximum vertical distance between each pass of capillary shall be no more than 8 inches. o Switch actuation shall occur if any 12 inch length of capillary senses a temperature below set point. o Capillary length shall be 1 linear foot per 1 square foot of coil area. o If capillary is of insufficient length to fully cover coil area, provide multiple sensors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 564 2024 o If multiple freezestats are provided, each device shall only cover its percentage of coil. For example, if there are two (2) freezestats, each covers . If there are four (4) thermostats, each covers . o Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. o Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. o Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. o Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Low temperature switches (freezestats), one (1) for each cooling coil section, shall follow the following sequence: o Pre time delay timeout: • Any freezestat installed on the inlet of the cooling coil shall initiate a safety shutdown sequence upon sensing a temperature below the low limit setting of 35°F, locally adjustable at each freezestat. • Each normally closed freezestat shall have a unique input and identifier. • Any freezestat trip shall activate a time delay relay. • Upon activation of the freezestat switch status input, the following shall occur (before time delay timeout):  The unique freezestat switch status input will be ON.  The time delay relay will initiate the elapsed time countdown  A pre alarm condition indicator shall activate at the BMS graphics containing the unique freezestat identifier  Preheat low limit setpoint will raise 10°F (adjustable)  CHW control valve will open to at least (if it isn’t already greater than open) o Post time delay timeout: • Upon activation of any freezestat switch status input for a continuous elapsed time of 30 seconds via the adjustable time delay relay, the following shall occur:  The supply fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The return fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The chilled water valve shall open to NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 565 2024  The preheat valves shall control to a preheat discharge temperature setpoint of 95°F (adjustable)  A five star alarm must be generated each time a freezestat time delay relay activates.  Each time delay relay shall have an independent five star alarm.  After the freezestat switch status turns off, the five star critical alarm can be manually set to OFF via the BMS. Once the alarm is off and the unit can be manually restarted via the BMS.  The outside air intake damper(s) shall close  The supply fan discharge damper(s) shall close Product • These thermostats shall be 2 position automatic reset type. • Approved manufacturers: a. Belimo b. Johnson Controls Execution • Capillaries must be mounted as per manufacturer’s recommendations. • Capillary shall be fastened using capillary holder mounting clips (similar to Johnson Controls TE 6001 8 mounting bracket) to prevent damage to capillary and ensure appropriate radius bends where capillaries change direction. • Installer must coordinate the mounting hardware radius with the capillary minimum radius required. • Capillaries must be installed such that the capillary can be replaced without removing multiple devices. • Low temperature shutdowns shall be manually reset via operator command from a workstation. • The elements shall be suspended at least 6 to 8 inches downstream of the preheat coils. • Furnish a hardwired time delay relay to delay fan shutdown and alarming at the workstation for 180 seconds (adjustable), unless otherwise stated. • Thermowells Immersion temperature measurement • All thermowells shall be type 304 stainless steel • 3/4" NPT external thread, 1/2" NPT internal thread • Lagging extension shall be equal to insulation thickness • Insertion length shall be 1/3 to 3/4 of internal pipe diameter, but not more than 6" NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 566 2024 • Thermowells shall be rated for maximum system pressure, temperature and fluid velocity. • Internal bore of thermowells shall be sized to exactly fit the diameter of the sensing element to be installed. g. Weather Stations General • For use with cooling tower or economizer control. • Provide detail on ordering instructions to specify desired customized outputs to BAS. • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. Product • Manufacturer: ViasalaVaisala • Model No.: HMS110 Execution • Follow manufacturer's installation requirements. • Mount in a location to minimize direct sunlight. h. Actuators General (by application) • Valve Actuators o All two position actuators shall be provided with open and closed limit switches for remote monitoring at the BMS. o Actuators shall be factory mounted to valve body and factory tested to ensure proper operation. o Actuators shall be provided with manually operated declutchable handwheels for overriding the actuator in both emergency and normal operation. o Actuator shall be provided with an external position indicator. o Tandem mounted actuators are not acceptable. o Actuators, limit switches, manual override handwheels, position indicators, etc., that are located outdoors shall be constructed for outdoor use. All electrical devices shall be weatherproof and NEMA 4 rated. All exposed valve components (i.e., stem, shaft, gear operators, handwheel, etc.) shall be constructed of non rusting metal or factory coated with rust inhibiting paint. • Damper actuators serving automatic louver dampers o Tandem mounted actuators shall not be provided o Housing shall be NEMA 2 o Manual override shall be provided NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 567 2024 o Include external direction of rotation switch o Ambient temperature operation shall be 22°F to 122°F o Storage temperature shall be 40°F to 176°F o Actuators shall be UL listed o Damper actuators are to be mounted on damper axels directly. Linkages are to be avoided. o Two Position  Actuators in two position (open/closed) service shall be 120 VAC electrically actuated spring return type. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. o Modulating  All automatic louvered damper actuators in modulating service shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC electrically actuated spring return type, and shall be fully proportioning, unless otherwise specified. Spring return running time shall not exceed 20 seconds. Product • Valve Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Bray, limitorque, EIMBelimo • Louvered Damper Actuators o Acceptable manufacturers: Belimo • Control Valve Actuators Preheat coil • Return: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal Position: Open Steam to or water to water heat exchanger • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed Chilled water coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 568 2024 Reheat coil • Return type: Spring • Power: 24VAC • Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V • Manual Override: Yes • Normal position: Closed i. Current Instruments • Current Sensing Switches General • Switches shall have field adjustable sensitivity for detecting AC current levels. • Relay contacts shall be Form C rated for 5A at 120VAC • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. Execution • For belt driven equipment, relay shall be adjusted to detect a belt break. • Relay shall be installed on one lead of the load side of the motor feed. j. Signal Transducers i. Relays Time Delay Relay • General o Time delay trigger and function shall be specified to meet the application requirements. • Product o Manufacturer: Magnecraft o Model: TDR Plug In Terminal (Ice Cube) • General o Relays shall be plug in terminal type with a DPDT configuration o Contact material shall be silver cadmium oxide o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 569 2024 • Product o Manufacturer: Idec o Model: RH Series • Execution o Each safety device serving a fan system shall be wired to a 2 pole relay located in the controller enclosure. One pole normally open of the relay shall be wired as a digital input to the controller serving the fan system identifying the specific alarm. The second pole, normally closed, shall be wired in series with the second pole of the relays serving other safety devices. Self Enclosed Relay (Relay in Box) k. Meters • Metering shall be provided at the service entrance of each utility to each building. • BTU for all Mass Flow Meters shall be a Hard Wired Interface • Utility Metering will be Bi Directional meters and shall be set up with positive values for exporting, and negative values for importing. • Meters shall be integrated to the BMS, when utilized for control the control variable must be hardwired • Meters shall also be integrated to third party data acquisition platforms as required. • Meter integration for Manhattan Main Campus:  The following outlines connectivity of Electric, Steam or Liquid meters to the BMS. The connectivity will vary based on two scenarios. Scenario one will be a connection to a single meter location as confined to a single Electrical Room or a Distribution Board. The second scenario involves a cluster of meters spanning multiple floors or buildings.  Individual Meters:  Defined as a single meter or multiple meters that are confined to a single location such as an Electrical Meter Room or a single, connected service distribution board. Such Meters shall be connected to the BMS Gateway Controller via a twisted, shielded pair communication wire. The communication protocol shall be Modbus RTU. Points to be mapped to the BMS are for trending and energy calculations. These points are not to be used as process variables in equipment control. Points mapped will vary depending on metered media and meter purpose and will need to be specified by NYULH.  Meter Clusters:  Defined as multiple groups of meters, spread throughout a building or floor. Meter Clusters are to utilize Modbus TCP Connection and are to connect directly to MCIT network switches. A single Meter Gateway, native to the brand of the meter is to be provided and connected to the MCIT network NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 570 2024 switch to interface with all meters in its cluster. A serial (RS 485) network connection is to be utilized to connect any meters over a twisted, shielded pair cable to pick up any meters that are not able to utilize an Ethernet connection. A second serial, RS 485 connection will be utilized to connect the Meter Gateway to the BMS. The communication protocol shall be Modbus RTU. Points to be mapped to the BMS are for trending and energy calculations. These points are not to be used as process variables in equipment control. Points mapped will vary depending on metered media and meter purpose and will need to be specified by NYULH. • Projects shall provide building level submetering for steam, chilled water, natural gas and electricity. Chilled water submetering should be provided at each chiller. Specialty medical / lab equipment requiring chilled water shall be metered separately per manufacturer’s recommendations. o Chilled Water Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Volumetric Flow Rate in Gallon/Min • Volumetric Flow in Gallons • Heat Flow Total in Tons • Heat Flow Rate in Tons/Hr • Supply Temp • Return Temp • Communication Status o Steam Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Steam Temperature in TempF • Steam Density • Steam Pressure in psig • Mass Flow Rate in lb/hr • Mass Flow Total in lb • Communication Status o Electric Meters Setup  Point List but not limited to • Communication Status • Each phase, V, I and PF and Frequency • Energy (kWh In/Out) • Real Power (kW) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 571 2024 ii. Networks a. Network Hardware • Switches General • Quantity of 10 gigabit ports is required • A minimum of 24 ethernet ports is required. For large buildings, 48 ports is preferred. • Switch must include redundant hot swappable power supplies Approved Products • Manufacturer: Juniper o Model:EX 2300 or EX 3400 o Core and Distribution: EX 4650 (48 ports) o Access: EX 4100 (48 ports) • Manufacturer: Netgear o Model: Netgear Pro Series • Manufacturer: Blackbox o Model: Gigabit Managed LG8 Series • Manufacturer: Cisco o Model: Catalyst 9500 • Routers General • BACnet router between MS/TP and B/IP (BACnet over IP) as well as a BBMD (BACnet Broadcast Management Device) for transportation of BACnet broadcasts over an IP network with several subnets. • Routers shall comply with the latest version of ASHRAE Standard 135 for communications. • Routers shall be UL864 listed when connected to BACnet MS/TP network segments that contain UL864 listed devices being used in a smoke control application. • Device shall be capable of routing BACnet packets over Layer 3 IP network and shall support both the router and BBMD networking options. BBMD shall support registration of Foreign Devices. • Devices shall be password protected with additional security settings. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 572 2024 iii. Piping & Panels a. Panel Enclosure General • The enclosure shall be made of steel or extruded aluminum with proper bracing for rigid wall or floor mounting. The enclosure shall not be attached to any piece of building equipment. All associated controller equipment shall be mounted in this enclosure such as controllers, power supplies, relays, switches, etc. • Hinged door shall contain a key operated lock. Lock shall be a cam style, in order for all the cores to be accessed via a master key. The key shall match existing control keys located in the facility. • Enclosures shall have a removable perforated backplane where all devices, din rail, and Panduit shall be secured and mounted. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. Product • Enclosures located within the building and not subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 12. • Enclosures subject to outdoor environmental conditions shall be NEMA 4X with thermostatically controlled ventilation fan and electric heater. • Accepted panel manufacturers: o Unity o Hoffman o Hammond Execution • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be sealed by utilizing duct seal putty as manufactured by Rainbow Technology. • All conduit penetrations to enclosures shall be from the bottom or sides to prevent any liquids from draining into the panel. b. Terminal Block General • All control panels shall be provided with a terminal strip for field wiring NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 573 2024 Product • Terminal blocks shall be 300 volt rated, medium duty, channel mounted, with numbered marking strips. c. Labeling General • Provide an engraved nameplate for each enclosure, mounted on the face of the door, indicating the controller tag, device instance, system served and branch circuit number and electrical panel tag from which the enclosure is fed. • The control panel has to be labeled for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to be labeled. All labeling of controller devices, controllers, transformers, relays, wire, tags, etc. shall match labeling on approved as built drawings • Each control device (IE. Relays, fuses, etc.) mounted within enclosure shall be marked with a nameplate cross referencing it to the control diagram. • Wiring shall have identification sleeves at each termination at the terminal strip individually identified per control/interlock drawings, with adequate clearance for field wiring. d. Panels General • Enclosures shall be provided with space for future addition of instruments. Fully loaded enclosures shall not be acceptable. Enclosures shall be oversized by . • Separate terminal blocks shall be installed for 120 volt AC wiring and for low level signal wiring within enclosures. Terminal blocks for line voltage wiring shall be separated from low level signal wiring by a barrier partition. • Each enclosure shall be provided with a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door, which shall be used to contain “as built” control diagrams serving the respective system. Plastic sleeve to contain controller directory indicating all input and output points labeled as per “as built” drawings. • Provide a 120 volt, 60 hertz duplex convenience outlet within each enclosure. Convenience outlet shall be provided with dedicated circuit breaker protection 5 Amp max. • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips Execution NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 574 2024 • Interconnections between internal devices and field wiring shall be installed at terminal strips • All wiring shall be contained neatly within plastic panduit. o Low voltage and line voltage wiring shall be routed through separate panduits. • Enclosure shall be provided with all required transformers and a main circuit breaker to disconnect all power serving the enclosure. • All transformers shall be mounted within an enclosure. Transformers will not be permitted to be installed out of enclosures. • For pressure switch alarms, provide a manual reset pushbutton switch with indicating light mounted on the face of the enclosure door. o Pushbutton shall allow an operator to reset a pressure alarm. The system shall remain off until manually reset via the pushbutton. e. Control Panel All materials used for the control panel must be UL listed and wired up under the standards of the National Electrical Code. The BMS subcontractor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers, power supplies, transformers, relays, terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. See figure CPL 01 for references. If the control panel has an external power source, see Figure CPL 04 as a reference. The Control Panel must consider the following points: • Circuit Breaker (CB) The control panel must have a main circuit breaker (CB) whose label will be: CB MP. This CB must be selected according to the total load that will be used in the control panel; see figure CPL 01A as a reference for a power diagram. • Power Supply (PS) If power supplies are used to feed 24 VDC to the controllers, the power supply must have a circuit breaker in the primary circuit and another circuit breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrent. See Figure CPL 01A as a reference for the power diagram. • Transformers (TX) Each 120 / 24 VAC transformer used in the control panel must have a circuit breaker in both the primary circuit and another circuit NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 575 2024 breaker in the secondary circuit. The CB must be selected according to the amperage necessary to protect against overcurrents. See Figure CPL 01A as a reference for a power diagram. • Single Terminal and double level terminal block i. Single terminal block Use single terminal blocks for the 120 VAC main power supply connections to the control panel as well as the low voltage connections after the power supply and transformers. See Figure CPL 02 for details of the terminal block and circuit breakers for 120 VAC (TB P1) and for low voltage 24 VAC and 24 VDC (TB P2), and Figure CPL 1A for a wire diagram reference. ii. Double level terminal block Inputs and Outputs: All the signals from the field devices must be connected to these terminals. There should be a strip of double level terminal blocks for inputs and a strip of double level terminal blocks for the output signal for the field. See Figure CPL 03 TB 01 as references. The top level has an odd number for a positive signal, and the bottom level has an even number for a negative signal. Field Power devices: A double level terminal block strip; check terminal block TB FPW shown in figure CPL 03 to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimal Minimum of two double terminal block blue color for 24VAC (T3) blue color and two double terminal block yellow color for COM (T4) yellow color. • Layout Spaces The control panel layout must use the minimum and maximum spaces shown in the table of Figure CPL 01, to install the DIN rail that holds the terminal block strip, circuit breaker, control relays, and controllers.The control panel has to consider the following table for the minimum and maximum space to install the DIN rail that holds the terminal block strip, circuit breaker, control relays, and controllers, as shown in figure CPL 01 as a reference. Reference InchMIN MAXA55.5B56NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 576 2024 C12D12E55.5 • Labels The control panel has to have labels for all the components, such as the circuit breakers, strip terminal blocks, control relays, transformers, power supplies, and controllers. All internal wires between the input and output from the controller and the terminal block have to have wire labels. • Wire duct The control panel layout drawing has to indicate the width and height of the wire duct (Panduit), as shown on Figure CPL 01 as a reference. The wire duct has to be selected according to the manufacturer's recommendations. f. VAV Control Box For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking, the BMS vendor must install a double level terminal block strip to feed 24 VAC to the field devices. Minimal of two double terminal blocks blue color for 24VAC and two double terminal blocks yellow color for COM. See Figure CPL 01A, the 24VAC Field Devices terminal block, as a reference. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 577 2024 Figure: CPL 01 Reference InchMIN MAX A 5 5.5 B 5 6 C12D 1 2 E55.5Figure: CPL 01 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 578 2024 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 579 2024 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 580