Annual ReportUnaudited Financial InformationFor the twelve months ended August 31, 2024 and August 31, 2023(The Obligated Groups of NYU Langone Hospitals and Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Langone Health)FISCAL YEARManagement’s Discussion and Analysis2024NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT Forward Looking StatementsCertain of the discussions included in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Recent Financial Performance may include certain “forward looking statements” which involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties inherent in the operation of healthcare facilities. Actual actions or results may differ materially from those discussed below. Specific factors that might cause such differenc­es include competition from other healthcare facilities in the service area of NYU Langone Health’s facilities, federal and state regulation of healthcare providers, and reimbursement policies of the state and federal governments and managed care organizations. In particular, statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “anticipates,” “plans,” “in­tends,” “scheduled” or other similar expressions are or may constitute forward looking statements. To the extent forward looking statements are included in this quarterly report, NYU Langone Health undertakes no obligation to update such statements.Financial Planning and Budgetary ProcessNYU Langone Health’s capital and operating budgets are developed annually beginning several months before the start of each fiscal year. Based on initial estimates by department managers and the targets developed within the Long Range Financial Plan (“LRFP”), NYU Langone Health’s Finance Department creates budgets that are reviewed by senior management. The LRFP and the capital and operating budgets are then reviewed by NYU Langone Health’s Finance Committee and presented to the NYU Langone Hospitals and NYU Langone Health System Board of Trustees for approval; approval of the NYU Langone Hospitals’ budgets rests with the Board of Trustees of NYU Langone Hospitals in compliance with New York State Department of Health regulations. NYU Langone Health’s budgets are also reviewed by New York University, the sole member of NYU Lan­gone Health System, and New York University’s Board of Trustees approves the budgets for the two medical schools. Financial performance is monitored by the NYU Langone Health Finance Commit­tee and the Board of Trustees.Organizational Structure“NYU Langone Health” represents the combined activities of NYU Langone Health System (“NYULH System”) and its affiliates, NYU Langone Hospitals and certain components of New York University, which include the NYU Robert I. Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUGSOM”) and the NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine (“NYUGLISOM”) (collectively the “NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine”). NYULH System is a subsidiary of New York University (“NYU”) and is the sole corporate member of NYU Langone Hospitals, Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Lan­gone Health (d/b/a Long Island Community Hospital) (“LICH”), Brookhaven Health Care Services Corporation (d/b/a Long Island Community Hospital Foundation) (the “Foundation”), and other related organizations. NYU Langone Hospitals is the sole obligated entity (“the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group”) with respect to the outstanding bonds and other obligations under the NYU Langone Hospitals Master Trust Indenture (the “NYU Langone Hospitals Master Indenture”). None of NYULH System, NYUGSOM, NYUGLISOM, LICH, the Foundation, or NYU is obligated with respect to obligations secured under the NYU Langone Hospitals Master Indenture.LICH is a not for profit acute care hospital located in Suffolk County, New York, and the Foundation is a not for profit corporation among whose purposes is to support the mission of LICH, including the solicitation of funds. The Foundation is guarantor of LICH’s outstanding bonds (as is NYU Lan­gone Hospitals as described within the Affiliation with LICH and the Foundation section) issued by NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORTthe Town of Brookhaven Local Development Corporation, specifically such issuer’s Revenue Bonds, Long Island Community Hospital Project, Series 2020 (the “LICH Bonds”). LICH is the sole obligat­ed entity (“the LICH Obligated Group”) relating to the LICH Bonds. LICH and the Foundation are referred to jointly in this report as the “LICH Credit Group”.NYU Langone Hospitals, LICH, and other related organizations of the NYULH System, have no obligation with respect to the outstanding indebtedness of NYU, including obligations of the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine.This quarterly disclosure for the twelve months ended August 31, 2024 and August 31, 2023 rep­resents a new disclosure format for NYU Langone Hospitals and LICH. Previously, separate disclo­sures were prepared by management for each of the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group and the LICH Credit Group. Starting with this quarterly disclosure, continuing disclosure requirements for the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group and the LICH Obligated Group will be satisfied utilizing this combined NYU Langone Health consolidated disclosure report, which contains both stand alone obligated group financial statements and operating data, and consolidating financial statements and operating data necessary to satisfy each of the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group and the LICH Obligated Group continuing disclosure requirements. Executive Leadership UpdateOn June 12, 2024, Robert I. Grossman, MD announced his plans to retire as CEO of NYU Langone Health and Dean of NYU Grossman School of Medicine at the end of August 2025. A formal national search for Dr. Grossman’s successor has commenced. Kenneth G. Langone also announced that he will step down from his position as chair of the NYU Langone Board of Trustees at the end of August 2025, but will remain a member of the Board of Trustees. Fiona Druckenmiller will succeed Mr. Lan­gone as Chair of the NYU Langone Board of Trustees. A member of the Board since 2006, including serving the past seven years as a co chair, Ms. Druckenmiller is a business leader who serves on multiple corporate boards and has made numerous transformational gifts to NYU Langone Health. These leadership transitions follow years of careful succession planning to ensure NYU Langone Health is fully prepared for this transition.Merger with Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Langone Health (“LICH”)On April 26, 2024, a certificate of need (“CON”) application was submitted to the New York State Department of Health (“NYS DOH”) for the full asset merger of Long Island Community Hospital at NYU Langone Health (“LICH”) with and into NYU Langone Hospitals, with NYU Langone Hospitals as the surviving corporation. The NYS DOH approved the CON on September 13, 2024. The antici­pated date of merger is March 1, 2025, pending receipt of all regulatory and corporate approvals.Rating UpgradeIn January 2024, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded NYU Langone Hospitals’ revenue bonds to A1 from A2 and revised the outlook to stable from positive at the higher rating level. Moody’s cited NYU Langone Hospitals’ “very strong and consistent operating performance and revenue growth relative to peers, driven by NYULH’s very strong market position and highly effective and disciplined leadership.” In September 2024, in connection with the refunding of DASNY and NCLEAC Series 2014 bonds, Moody’s and S&P reaffirmed their A1 and A+ rating with a stable outlook for the 2024 bonds issued through DASNY.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT ivNYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORTContentsIntroduction1Financial Highlights2Enterprise Overview3Recognition for Quality and Excellence 4Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Recent Financial Performance8Results from Operations 8Summarized Balance Sheets10Liquidity and Investments11Philanthropy11Affiliation with LICH and the Foundation11Medical School Payments12Major Construction Projects12Affiliations13Other Current Events14Cybersecurity14Role of Artificial Intelligence15Medical Advances 16Sustainability17Energy Management & Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction18Community Benefits19Community Investments in Brooklyn and Queens20Community Investments in Suffolk County21Charity and Underfunded Care23Investments in Research and Education25Obligated Group Financial Highlights 26Days Cash on Hand Calculation 26Debt Service Coverage Ratio26Capitalization27Utilization and Payor Mix Statistics27Financial Statements29Combining Statements of Operations 29Combining Balance Sheets31Statements of Changes in Net Assets35Statements of Cash Flows37Notes to the Financial Statements39NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 1IntroductionNYU Langone Health is a world class integrated academic health system and one of the largest in the Northeast—stretching across five inpatient facilities and over 300 locations throughout the New York City region and in Flor­ida. Guided by its purpose to deliver the best outcomes in patient care, education, and science, its more than 51,000 staff members aim to consistently provide life changing care, innovative medical education, and groundbreaking advances in research. NYU Langone Health’s mission to care, to teach, and to discover is achieved daily through a culture of exceptionalism. Its values of performance, respect, integrity, diversity, and excellence influence the way its staff members show up each and every day for its patients, students, and communities.NYU Langone Hospitals has achieved the highest quality recognition from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Ser­vices and Leapfrog, and has been named No. 1 in Quality and Safety by Vizient, Inc. All NYU Langone Health hospi­tals have been accredited by The Joint Commission. NYU Langone Health is home to 13 top ranked specialties in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report. NYU Langone Hospitals are Magnet designated for excel­lence in nursing and quality patient care from the Amer­ican Nurses Credentialing Center, an honor achieved by only 9. of hospitals in the United States. The Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center is designated a Compre­hensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute of the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”), its highest recognition of achievement. Rusk Rehabilitation is consis­tently ranked one of the top 10 rehabilitation programs in the country by U.S. News & World Report.Groundbreaking MedicineIn addition to providing its patients top quality and safety outcomes, NYU Langone Health’s clinicians and research­ers have set new standards for the diagnosis and treat­ment of diseases and have made or contributed to break­throughs in biomedical science.In 2015, a team of surgeons led by Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstruc­tive Plastic Surgery and chair of NYU Langone’s Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, performed the most extensive face transplant to date, followed in 2020 by the world’s first successful face and double hand transplant and in 2023 by the world’s first whole eye and partial face transplant.In 2021, a team of surgeons led by Robert Montgomery, MD, DPhil, director of the NYU Langone Transplant Insti­tute, the H. Leon Pachter, MD, Professor of Surgery, and chair of the Department of Surgery, performed the first investigational transplant of a kidney grown in a genetical­ly altered pig to a person with complete and irreversible loss of all brain function, whose bodily functions were sus­tained by mechanical support. In separate investigational procedures performed in June and July 2022, surgeons led by Dr. Montgomery successfully transplanted hearts from genetically altered pigs into brain dead patients, marking the latest advance toward addressing the nation­wide organ shortage and developing a clinical protocol that would provide an alternative supply of organs for people with life threatening heart disease. In April 2024, surgeons performed the first combined mechanical heart pump and gene edited pig kidney transplant surgery. The heart pump was surgically implanted days before the surgery to transplant a gene edited pig kidney and a pig’s thymus gland to aid against rejection. It is only the second transplant of a gene edited pig kidney into a living person and the first with the thymus combined.Transforming Medical EducationNYUGSOM has spearheaded innovations that have not only transformed the training of medical students, but also inspired educational reforms at other medical schools nationwide. In 2013, NYUGSOM began offering an accelerated three year MD degree for select medical students, an initiative designed to ease the financial burden of medical school and launch medical careers one year earlier than tradi­tional students. The program made NYU Langone Health the first nationally ranked academic medical center in the United States to enable graduates to pursue a career in ei­ther primary care or the medical specialty of their choice in three years.Then, in 2018—and through a groundswell of generosity from hundreds of alumni, trustees, and other scholar­ship supporters—NYUGSOM once again made history. NYUGSOM became the first top ranked medical school in the nation to provide full tuition scholarships to all new and current students, a strategy aimed at reducing the staggering debt incurred by medical students due to the ever rising cost of their education. The following year, NYU School of Medicine was renamed NYU Grossman School of Medicine in honor of the landmark educational achieve­ments and visionary leadership of Robert I. Grossman, MD, which vaulted the school to national renown. Today, one in six medical school applicants nationwide set their sights on NYUGSOM.In 2019, NYU Langone Health expanded its medical stu­dent training when it launched NYUGLISOM. The school, which also provides full tuition scholarships, is the only accelerated three year MD program focused on primary care in New York State.Leaders in ResearchNYU Langone Health is setting the pace as the fastest NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT2growing research enterprise within a top 20 medical school. NYUGSOM is a highly productive research intensive school of medicine, with active awards per researcher currently higher than any other top 20 medical school. Its team of 1,190 principal investigators has amassed a portfolio of NIH funding that has grown from $129 million in 2007, to $820 million in 2024. In 2021, NYUGSOM was selected by the NIH to be the Clinical Science Core of the Researching COVID to Enhance Re­covery (RECOVER) Initiative and received a $450 million parent award. Since then, NYU Langone Health has success­fully constructed the RECOVER Consortium, making multiple subawards to a network of lead investigators studying the long term effects of COVID 19 at 33 institutions across the nation. These researchers coordinate data, monitor proto­cols, and guide communications with patients and clinicians.Financial HighlightsNYU Langone Health(unaudited)For the twelve months endedchange from prior period($ in millions)August 31, 2024August 31, 2023$%Operating revenue $14,173.5 $12,414.9 $1,758.614.Operating gain 431.4 358.8 72.6 20.Operating margin3.2.The above Rankings and Honors exclude LICH.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 3NYU Langone Health represents the combined operations of NYU Langone Hospitals, the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine, LICH, and other NYULH System related organizations. NYU Langone Hospitals is a quaternary care teaching hospital that operates five inpatient acute care facilities and over 40 New York State Public Health Law Article 28 licensed facilities in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. Inpatient facilities in Manhat­tan include the Kimmel Pavilion (which also houses the Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital) and Tisch Hospital, both of which are located on the main 34th Street campus and have a combined 813 beds, as well as NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, which is a 225 bed facility special­izing in orthopedic, neurologic, and rheumatologic ser­vices. NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn (“NYU Langone Brooklyn”) is a 444 bed facility in the Sunset Park neigh­borhood of Brooklyn. NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (“NYU Langone Long Island”) is a 591 bed facility located in Mineola, New York. Ambulatory facilities include the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center, a comprehen­sive cancer and ambulatory care center, and the Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center in the Cobble Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn, which includes a free standing Emergency Department.NYU Langone Hospitals is licensed by the New York State Department of Health (“NYS DOH”) and accredited by The Joint Commission and the Commission on the Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities. NYU Langone Hospitals is also certified by the United States Depart­ment of Health and Human Services for participation in the Medicare and Medicaid programs.As of August 31, 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals had a professional staff of 5,955 physicians, of whom 4,272 were full time or part time employees of NYUGSOM or NYU Langone Hospitals, and the remaining 1,683 were private practice physicians with admitting privileges at NYU Lan­gone Hospitals. In addition, as of August 31, 2024, LICH had a professional staff of 173 physicians, of which all are voluntary physicians with admitting privileges at LICH.NYU Langone Hospitals owns CCC550 Insurance, SCC (“CCC550”), which provides professional liability insur­ance to NYU Langone Hospitals, physicians employed by NYUGSOM, and other non employed physicians. CCC550 is not a member of the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group and is not obligated with respect to any of NYU Langone Hospitals’ outstanding debt. No assets or revenues of CCC550 are pledged to secure any of NYU Langone Hospitals’ outstanding debt. As previously noted, NYU Langone Hospitals is integrat­ed with two accredited schools of medicine, NYUGSOM, which for over 180 years has been a pioneer in medical education and since 2018 has proudly offered full tuition scholarships to all students enrolled in the MD degree program, and NYUGLISOM, which is focused on educating and training physicians and academic leaders in primary care medicine and has also offered full tuition scholar­ships since 2019. Additionally, matriculated studentsEnterprise OverviewNYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT4•Vizient named NYU Langone Hospitals as No. 1 in the nation for quality care in the comprehensive academic medical centers cohort. NYU Langone Long Island and NYU Langone Brooklyn were also named as some of the top hospitals in the large, specialized complex care medical centers cohort. Finally, NYU Langone Health was named as one of the top ambulatory networks for quality and accountability.•NYU Langone Health completed 101 living kidney donor transplants, a new institutional record.•Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”)◊In October 2024, NYU Langone Health achieved the nation’s lowest mortality rate for heart attack patients, according to CMS data. NYU Langone Health’s 30 day mortality rate for heart attack patients across all hospitals in the system is an impressive 7., significantly lower than the national benchmark of 13..at NYUGLISOM receive a direct pathway to residency at NYU Langone Long Island through the National Resident Matching Program. For the third consecutive year, of the NYUGLISOM’s graduating students matched, with entering primary care residencies. Of the 2024 grad­uating class, will continue their training within NYU Langone Health.Both schools of medicine operate as unincorporated divisions of NYU. NYU is a separate borrowing entity and NYU Langone Hospitals is not responsible for the indebt­edness of the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine. NYU, through NYUGSOM, employs nearly 3,900 faculty physi­cians who form the division known as the Faculty Group Practice (“FGP”). FGP physicians deliver patient care at more than 300 ambulatory locations in the New York metropolitan area and two practice locations in Delray Beach and West Palm Beach, Florida. These physicians constitute the principal clinical service providers for NYU Langone Hospitals’ facilities and are connected by NYU Langone Health’s enterprise wide electronic medical record system, Epic.On March 1, 2022, pursuant to the terms of an Affiliation Agreement (the “Affiliation Agreement”), NYULH System became the sole corporate member of LICH, an acute care hospital licensed to operate 306 beds located in Suffolk County, and the Foundation (the “Affiliation”). LICH and the Foundation each remain separate corpora­tions, responsible for their own respective liabilities and obligations. As a result of the Affiliation Agreement, and beginning on March 1, 2022, LICH changed its name from Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center, Inc. to LICH and changed its fiscal year from a calendar year to a fiscal year beginning September 1 and ending August 31 to align with the fiscal year of the NYULH System. It is expected that LICH will merge with and into NYU Langone Hospitals effective March 1, 2025, pending the receipt of all necessary corporate and regulatory approvals.Refer to the “Affiliation with LICH and the Foundation” section for additional considerations regarding the Affilia­tion Agreement and LICH’s outstanding indebtedness.For the twelve months ended and as of August 31, 2024, NYU Langone Health reported operating revenues of $14.2 billion and total assets of $21.2 billion. The NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group represents 66. of NYU Langone Health’s operating revenues and 57. of NYU Langone Health’s total assets for the twelve months ended and as of August 31, 2024, respectively and the LICH Obligated Group represents 2. of NYU Langone Health’s operating revenues and 1. of NYU Langone Health’s total assets for the twelve months ended and as of August 31, 2024, respectively. Management’s discus­sion and analysis of recent financial performance is based upon the financial results of NYU Langone Health, unless otherwise noted.Recognition for Quality and ExcellenceNYU Langone Health’s culture of exceptionalism continues to deliver the best outcomes for its patients with one con­sistently high standard of care across all its locations. Its patient centered, quality care differentiates it in the market­place, as demonstrated by its national and local rankings, several of which are noted below. The institution’s laser focus on collecting and analyzing data, its investment in the latest technology and state of the art facilities, and its dedication to patients ensure all its locations live up to the same high standards.NYU Langone Health and NYU Langone Hospitals have been the recipient of numerous quality and safety awards, in both the inpatient and ambulatory settings. In 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals was recognized by Vizient, Inc. (“Vizient”) as the No. 1 comprehensive academic medical center in the nation for the third year in a row and as a top ambulatory system for quality and safety. NYU Langone Long Island and NYU Langone Brooklyn were also named as two of the top specialized complex medical centers in the nation. Vizient is the nation’s largest healthcare performance improvement organization, serving more than of the nation’s acute care providers, including of the academic medical centers in the United States with over 1,300 hospitals, and more than of the non acute market. Its rankings are determined by critical factors such as safety, equity of care, effectiveness, efficiency, mortality, and patient centered­ness. In the last quarter, NYU Langone Health received the following awards and recognition for the quality of patient care and excellence as an employer:NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 5Other Recent Accolades•NYU Langone Health received triennial accreditation from The Joint Commission on Accreditation and was award­ed specialty certifications across its hospitals in several programs:◊New Certification in Health Equity was awarded to all hospitals◊Achieved renewal of Stroke Rehabilitation Certification at NYU Langone Brooklyn◊Achieved renewal of Certification in Advanced Perinatal Care and renewal of Certification in Palliative Care at its hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island•U.S. News & World Report◊NYU Langone Hospitals continues to be recognized in all but one specialty, with 13 specialties receiving top 20 rankings in the 2024 25 U.S. News & World Report, up from 11 specialties last year. Neurology and Neu­rosurgery remained at its No. 1 ranking and Pulmonology and Lung Surgery tied for the No. 1 spot this year. Additionally, the following specialties improved in ranking: Cancer; Cardiology, Heart and Vascular Surgery; Ear, Nose, and Throat; Obstetrics and Gynecology; Orthopedics; Pulmonology and Lung Surgery; Rehabili­tation; and Urology.◊In the 2024 25 U.S. News & World Report “Best Hospitals” rankings, NYU Langone Hospitals was named to the Honor Roll for Top Hospitals in the Nation. NYU Langone Hospitals tied for No. 1 in New York State and also tied for No. 1 in the New York City metro area.◊Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital is No. 1 in pediatric cardiology and heart surgery in New York State, accord­ing to the 2023 24 U.S. News & World Report “Best Children’s Hospitals” survey. In addition, Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital tied overall for No. 4 in New York City and No. 12 in the Mid Atlantic Region.◊In December 2023, NYU Langone Hospitals received a high performance designation from U.S. News & World Report as part of its “Best Hospitals for Maternity Care” survey.•Tisch Hospital/Kimmel Pavilion in Manhattan, NYU Langone Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Long Island were each awarded an ‘A’ score in the spring 2024 Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade, a national distinction recognizing NYU Langone Hospitals’ achievement in providing the highest level of patient care across the health system and an hon­or attained by only of hospitals across the country. NYU Langone Brooklyn remains the only hospital in that borough with an ‘A’ score.•In July 2024, the Emergency Nurses Association gave the Lantern Award to Ronald O. Perelman Center for Emer­gency Services and NYU Langone Health’s Cobble Hill Emergency Department, which recognizes emergency de­partments that demonstrate exceptional and innovative performance in leadership, practice, education, advocacy, and research. All four of NYU Langone Hospitals’ emergency departments have now received this award.•The Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center was once again designated a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute of the National Cancer Institutes of the NIH, its highest recognition of achievement. The Center achieved an outstanding score on its renewal, which will last for the next seven years.•Newsweek◊In September 2024, Newsweek named NYU Langone Hospitals as one of The World’s Best Specialized Hos­pitals 2025 in the following specializations: Cardiac Surgery, Cardiology, Endocrinology, Gastroenterology, Neurology, Neurosurgery, Oncology, Orthopedics, Pulmonology, and Urology.◊In September 2024, Newsweek recognized NYU Langone Hospitals as one of The World’s Best Smart Hos­pitals, with electronic functionalities and virtualization being named as standout categories.•American Association of Critical Care Nurses◊In July 2024, the Medical Intensive Care Unit at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion won the Beacon Award for Excellence. The American Association of Critical Care Nurses provides this unit based award to nurses who demonstrate a commitment to enhancing nursing practice and providing exceptional patient care in a nurturing and supportive work environment.◊In August 2024, NYU Langone Long Island’s Neurointensive Care Unit was honored with the gold level Bea­con Award for Excellence, which is the highest designation awarded and held by only one other neuro ICU in New York State. Gold level indicates sustained unit performance and improvements in patient outcomes that exceed national benchmarks.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT6•Newsweek◊Tisch Hospital/Kimmel Pavilion in Manhattan, NYU Langone Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Long Island were recognized by Newsweek as “5 ribbon hospitals” in its list of America’s Best Maternity Hospitals for 2024. •In May 2024, NYU Langone Health’s Comprehensive Epilepsy Center achieved the highest possible ranking via ac­creditation as a Level 4 Adult and Level 4 Pediatric Epilepsy Center by the National Association of Epilepsy Centers.•NYU Langone Health achieved national rankings by the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients:◊No. 1 in Quality in the U.S. for Lung and Kidney Programs◊No. 4 in the U.S. and No. 1 in New York State for Adult Liver Transplant Programs•Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”)◊NYU Langone Hospitals achieved a five star rating on the CMS Hospital Compare for 2024, a rating re­ceived by only 13. of evaluated hospitals. NYU Langone Hospitals is one of only ten five star hospitals in New York State.•Magnet®◊Tisch Hospital/Kimmel Pavilion received its fifth consecutive Magnet® designation in June 2024. Less than of all hospitals in the U.S. have been Magnet® designated five times.◊NYU Langone Hospitals’ locations have earned the Magnet® designation for excellence in nursing and quality patient care from the American Nurses Credentialing Center, and honor achieved by only 9. of hospitals in the U.S.◊NYU Langone Brooklyn is the first and only hospital in Brooklyn to receive Magnet® recognition for excel­lence in nursing and quality patient care.Other safety and quality awards◊NYU Langone Hospitals was recognized as the No. 1 hospital in New York State in Cardiac Care, Cardiology, Gastrointestinal Care, Gastrointestinal Medical, Gastrointestinal Surgery, Neurosciences, Pulmonary Care, and Stroke Care, and No. 2 in Coronary Intervention in the Healthgrades 2024 State Rankings Awards.◊Tisch Hospital/Kimmel Pavilion achieved three star ratings for cardiac and thoracic surgery procedures from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, the highest possible rating.◊In April 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals was recognized by Turquoise Health, a healthcare pricing platform, for having the highest level of adherence to the Federal Price Transparency Rule.◊In October 2024, The College of Healthcare Information Management Executives revalidated NYU Langone Health as a Level 10 Digital Health Most Wired Ambulatory and Acute Care Organization, reflecting NYU Langone Health’s commitment to providing world class patient care through the use of digital tech, ad­vanced analytics, and AI. NYU Langone Health is the only institution in New York to receive Level 10 desig­nation, and one of only 26 health systems nationwide to receive this distinction.NYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT 7NYU Langone Health received recognition on the following prestigious Best Employer award lists:◊2024 America’s Greatest Workplaces for Mental Wellbeing by Newsweek◊2024 America’s Greatest Workplaces for LGBTQ+ by Newsweek◊2024 America’s Greatest Workplaces by Newsweek◊2024 America’s Greatest Workplaces for Parents & Families by Newsweek◊2024 Best Place to Work for Disability Inclusion by Disability Equality Index◊2024 Best in State Employer by Forbes◊2024 Inclusion Index by Seramount◊2024 Best Companies for Multicultural Women by Seramount◊2024 Workplace Wellness Award by Ragan◊2024 Best Employers: Excellence in Health & Well Being by Business Group on Health◊2024 Best Employers: Excellence in Mental Health by Business Group on Health◊2024 Top Companies for Talent Acquisition for Women of Color by Fair360◊2024 Top Companies for Executive Women by Fair360◊2024 Platinum Bell Seal for Workplace Mental Health by Mental Health America◊NYU Langone Health was named a LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, the nation’s largest LGBTQ+ advocacy group, in its Healthcare Equality IndexNYU LANGONE HEALTH FY2024 Q4 ANNUAL REPORT8Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Recent Financial PerformanceNYU Langone Health recorded a gain from operations of $431.4 million for the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, for an operating margin of 3., compared with a gain from operations of $358.8 million for the twelve months ended August 31, 2023, for an operating margin of 2.. Furthermore, within the NYU Langone Health operating margin for the twelve months ended August 31, 2024 is the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group gain of $750.0 million for an operating margin of 7.; the LICH Obligated Group loss of $16.8 million for an operating margin of 4.; and the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine loss of $303.4 million for an operating margin of 5.. Within the NYU Langone Health operating mar­gin for the twelve months ended August 31, 2023, is the NYU Langone Hospitals Obligated Group gain of $686.3 million for an operating margin of 8.; the LICH Obligat­ed Group loss of $47.4 million for an operating margin of 17.; and the NYU Grossman Schools of Medicine loss of $273.7 million for an operating margin of 5.. Refer to the “Obligated Group Financial Highlights” and “Finan­cial Statements” sections for the metrics and financial statements of the obligated groups.For the twelve months ended August 31, 2024, NYU Langone Health recorded total revenue of $14.2 billion: 30. from inpatient operations; 28. from outpatient operations; 19. from FGP patient services; and 22. from other sources. As compared to the twelve months ended August 31, 2023, total revenue increased by $1.8 billion or by 14.. Management attributes the increase to a 6. increase in inpatient discharges and a 6. in­crease in outpatient visits. Management further attributes a portion of the increase to pharmacy revenue, which increased by $184.1 million or by 26. over the prior comparable period.(unaudited)For the twelve months endedchange from prior period($ in thousands)August 31, 2024August 31, 2023$%NYU Langone HealthOperating revenue$ 14,173,508 $ 12,414,924 $ 1,758,584 14.Operating expenses 13,742,072 12,056,135 1,685,937 14.Gain from operations$ 431,436 $358,789 $ 72,647 20.Operating margin %3.2.NYU Langone HospitalsOperating revenue$ 9,546,770 $ 8,337,715 $ 1,209,055 14.Operating expenses 8,796,816 7,651,460 1,145,356 15.Gain from operations$ $749,954 $ 686,255 $ 63,699 9.Operating margin %7.8.NYU Grossman Schools of MedicineOperating revenue$ 5,949,248 $ 5,195,114 $