In a retrospective study of more than 88,000 Vizient records , NYU Langone Health researchers found that, compared with open surgery, minimally invasive colon resection improves short-term outcomes, including length of stay, readmission rate, mortality, and cost. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes.” “Colon resections are regarded as major operations in comparison to other GI surgeries, and many surgeons have greeted minimally invasive colon surgery with caution,” says , a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. “There was some initial doubt around oncological colorectal surgery because of early concern regarding higher recurrence rates.” Another reason for surgeon hesitancy: The learning curve for MIS is steep. “You have to go through formal, structured training,” Dr. Brathwaite says. “Robotics is easier to learn, but the equipment is expensive. You can’t just go out and start doing it like you can laparoscopy.” As laparoscopic and robotic procedures increase in academic centers, surgical residents will be more likely to perform colon MIS, Dr. Brathwaite notes. The goal is to make sure as many people are trained in MIS as possible, including practicing surgeons. “Of course, we’re still teaching laparoscopy; we don’t have robots in every operating room,” he says. “And there are some patients that still require open surgery; for example, someone who is hemodynamically unstable. Residents work with us on these open cases and get simulation training as well.” Dr. Brathwaite hopes this study and others will shift thinking regarding open colon resection as the gold standard of care. “To make any sort of change like this, you have to keep showing data,” he says. “Our study shows that patients who have minimally invasive colectomy will have superior outcomes, especially right around the episode of care.” Bariatric Surgery, General Surgery Collin E. M. Brathwaite, MD, MS, is a professor of surgery at NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine. His research explores surgical considerations in bariatric, foregut and other complex surgeries, including issues related to surgical practice and training. Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Cigdem I. Akman, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Acclaimed pediatric epileptologist Cigdem I. Akman, MD , recently joined to launch a dedicated Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Dr. Akman and pediatric neurosurgeon Eveline Teresa Hidalgo, MD , director of clinical research in pediatric neurosurgery, will co-lead the program to streamline and expand access to NYU Langone’s pediatric epilepsy surgical services. Here, Dr. Akman shares her plans for the program and her insights on emerging treatment modalities for child and adolescent epilepsy. She also discusses what she has learned over three decades about connecting with patients and their families. Dr. Akman, you started out practicing internal medicine in your native Turkey. How did you wind up as a pediatric epilepsy specialist in New York City? Dr. Akman: Originally, I wanted to study engineering, but my father encouraged me to go to medical school. I’m glad I listened to his advice. After an internship in internal medicine, I decided that my heart was in pediatrics, helping children and their caregivers. So I completed a residency training at Hacettepe University Children’s Hospital in Ankara, Turkey, where I was assigned to pediatric hematology. In 1995, I came to the United States for further training, and found myself strongly drawn to pediatric neurology. It happened the first time I witnessed a child—an 8-year-old girl—brought to the emergency room for involuntary movements, which were suspected to be seizures. Besides the intensity of her symptoms, what struck me was how terrifying her condition was for her parents and how eager they were to find answers. A few days later, an evaluation determined that she was having psychogenic non-epileptic events. This news was welcomed by her caregivers, though the therapeutic modalities required to treat her were complex. The incident opened my eyes to how critical it is to make the correct diagnosis—in this case, to distinguish epileptic seizures from symptoms that resemble them—and to provide counseling for patients’ families. That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me. “That experience on my first day in pediatric neurology consult service made me realize that this was the field for me.” Nearly three decades later, I feel privileged to join the superb epilepsy and child neurology team at NYU Langone. In fact, NYU Langone accepted me as a young trainee for an observership in pediatrics while I was still studying in Ankara, so I spent a month here before making the decision to move to the United States. I’m thrilled to be back. What’s your vision for the new surgical program at NYU Langone? I’ve always had a special place in my heart for epilepsy surgery, which can be remarkably effective in patients struggling with drug-resistant forms of the disease. Although this treatment modality has been around for more than six decades, it has remained underutilized and is still considered only as a last resort. The persistent misconceptions about this approach—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done to broaden adoption and improve access to comprehensive care for young patients. “The persistent misconceptions about [epilepsy surgery]—that it is too risky, rarely successful, or only suitable for adults—highlight the work that needs to be done.” at NYU Langone has long been one of the largest medical and surgical treatment centers of its kind in the country—an accredited Level 4 epilepsy center, recognized for its expertise in providing the highest level of care. By launching a dedicated epilepsy surgery program within this framework, we aim to optimize coordination between the medical and surgical sides of our practice. The goal is to ensure that children living with drug-resistant epilepsy have access to comprehensive care, and to identify more rapidly those who could benefit from surgical intervention. To that end, I’ll act as a consultant for referring physicians to help facilitate a comprehensive evaluation process to assess patients’ eligibility. If a child is a candidate for surgery, Dr. Hidalgo and I will help our colleagues and the child’s caregivers to develop a treatment plan. I will also be part of a specialized clinical team in epilepsy to provide services for intracranial EEG monitoring, as well as functional mapping for cortical regions at bedside and in the operating room for patients who are potential candidates for surgery. In addition to surgery, what emerging therapeutic approaches are you particularly excited about? Traditional epilepsy surgery aims to remove the epileptic focus to achieve a seizure-free outcome. However, patients with drug-resistant epilepsy for whom surgery is not an option—whether because their epilepsy is nonfocal, or for other reasons—can choose from a growing number of approaches that may reduce the overall seizure burden and decrease the frequency of disabling seizures, thus improving quality of life. Neuromodulation is increasingly considered as an alternative treatment option for those individuals . Among the various forms of neuromodulation, vagus nerve stimulation is the best known and most established. But responsive neurostimulation and deep brain stimulation are emerging modalities to be considered for pediatric age groups. We’re also seeing progress in developing treatments for rare epilepsy syndromes that result from mutations affecting a single gene. Early-stage clinical trials are underway for gene therapies aimed at curing these disorders. It’s going to take time, but we’re inching closer and closer. Over your three decades as a pediatric epilepsy specialist, what insights have you gained about delivering excellent care? The rewarding thing about pediatric epilepsy is the impact you can make in decreasing seizure burden, preventing related complications, and allowing the child to grow and be independent. By choosing the right therapy, you can profoundly change the course of a young person’s life. I remember a 5-year-old presenting with seizures characterized by intermittent, severe shoulder pain. Initially, an epilepsy diagnosis was not considered because of the fact that seizures are not painful in general. This child had been admitted to the hospital numerous times for the same symptoms, and she was first evaluated for herpes zoster infection. EEG was later performed to rule out seizure, but it revealed no obvious correlation with her painful events. Her brain MRI was also unrevealing for any structural abnormality. Eventually, however, she received a diagnosis of drug-resistant focal epilepsy based on the persistent, stereotyped clinical events and emerging abnormalities on her repeat EEGs. “Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians.” The girl underwent intracranial EEG monitoring to determine whether she was a candidate for epilepsy surgery. Her evaluation demonstrated that her seizure focus was located 2 centimeters below the brain surface and localized to the sensory cortex, which resulted in her pain symptoms at the time of seizures. After removal of the epileptic cortex, she became seizure-free. She graduated from college a few years ago and is now studying to become a special education teacher. This is one of many experiences over the years that helped shape my approach as a clinician. Achieving goals for treating a child with epilepsy depends on teamwork, and on trust built between the patient, caregivers, and physicians. Epilepsy treatment is not one-size-fits-all; it has to be tailored based on the child’s needs and diagnosis. As physicians, we must be careful listeners and observers to establish the right diagnosis, and we must remain open-minded toward treatments with which we may be unfamiliar or lack experience. It’s also important to understand that caregivers’ perception of treatment options may be affected by cultural, socioeconomic, and religious factors. So communication and transparency are critical elements of epilepsy care. We’ve got to take the time to describe the condition and treatment options thoroughly. When we don’t know the answers, we should be willing to say so. Although being assertive can be difficult, we have to remember that parents can feel overwhelmed by the details and by the responsibility of making tough choices on behalf of their children; it’s our job to help them make a decision. All this is critical for creating trust. Patients and family members are desperate for someone they can lean on during this difficult journey. Cigdem I. Akman, MD, is a clinical professor of neurology and medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program. Her research centers on improving the diagnosis and treatment of childhood-onset epilepsy. Snapshot AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead Unique speech decoding and synthesizing system could yield neural prostheses that mimic a patient’s own voice. New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds Heidi Schambra, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health The AI-generated COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score quantifies stroke motor impairment in under one minute using data from wearables and video. It strongly correlates with the Fugl-Meyer Assessment, the gold-standard for stroke sensorimotor evaluation, which takes upward of an hour to complete. COBRA is currently intended for research use only, but has the potential to support continuous and standardized monitoring of patient recovery. The AI framework may be ideal for applications with limited patient data, as the model was trained on healthy subjects and detects deviations from the norm. The evaluation of upper extremity impairment is key to guiding and adapting rehabilitation protocols that support recovery in patients with stroke. Current assessment tools, including the gold standard, the Fugl-Meyer Assessment (FMA), are time-consuming and require in-person administration by a trained clinician. To solve this problem, Heidi Schambra, MD , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine at NYU Langone Health; Carlos Fernandez-Granda, PhD , an associate professor of mathematics and data science at New York University; and their research teams developed a new framework. Based on artificial intelligence (AI) and data-driven, it automatically quantifies impairment. Their work was npj Digital Medicine “Think about having a system that effortlessly automates patient assessment and monitoring,” says Dr. Schambra. “It could provide real-time, continuous feedback, saving time and providing clinicians with actionable information.” Anomaly Detection The COnfidence-Based chaRacterization of Anomalies (COBRA) score was designed based on anomaly detection. The approach incorporates AI models trained exclusively on wearable sensor and video data from healthy individuals. “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected. If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” “Anomaly detection involves training a model to recognize patterns of movement that are normal or expected,” explains Dr. Schambra. “If the model encounters an unfamiliar pattern, it will raise an alert.” The anomaly-detection framework is tailored to a specific medical condition, like stroke. This is achieved by training AI models to predict, for example, the upper body motions required for a healthy individual to raise a drinking glass with their arm. When the models are presented with data from a patient with arm impairments due to stroke, the average model confidence drops in proportion to severity, allowing for quantification. “When presented with data from patients with impairments, the model quantifies their deviation from the healthy population,” says Dr. Schambra. Moving Beyond the Gold Standard According to Dr. Schambra, the FMA scale remains the gold standard, but it’s far from perfect. In fact, the tool is the current “rate-limiting step” in the evaluation of upper body impairment after stroke. “The FMA takes specialized training in order to administer,” says Dr. Schambra. “It can take up to an hour to complete, which few busy therapists have the time for. After three hours of rehab each day, patients are also very tired. We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” “We need something faster and less burdensome for everyone.” In their recent publication, the research teams showed that the COBRA score, computed automatically in under one minute, strongly correlates with the FMA. They compared both assessments across several movements and activities, including arranging objects on a table or shelf, putting on eyeglasses, brushing hair and teeth, and eating. Although the system isn’t ready for full-scale clinical deployment, it’s an exciting first step. “This technology is a way to support therapists in their delivery of rehabilitation training,” says Dr. Schambra. “They could use the COBRA scores to better focus on problem areas and to track what’s working and what’s not. It will enable us to deliver therapy in a more standardized fashion.” For next steps, the researchers will prioritize refining the framework, moving beyond proof of concept. The team plans to expand their testing of the COBRA framework in hundreds of stroke patients to ensure its generalizability. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals.” Moreover, the framework could be suitable for applications where it is difficult to obtain large-scale databases of patients with different degrees of impairment or severity, since it only requires data from a healthy cohort of moderate size, Dr. Schambra explains. For instance, the team is applying the framework to quantify knee osteoarthritis severity using MRI scans. “Our results suggest that fine-tuned annotations describing clinically relevant attributes can be useful, even if they are only available for healthy individuals,” notes Dr. Schambra. Vascular Neurology, Neurology Heidi Schambra, MD, is an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine and director of research strategy in the Department of Neurology. Her research interests include the development of new interventions to help patients recover from stroke. Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry Charles Marmar, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health. , the Peter H. Schub Professor of , where he is chair, sat down with Marc K. Siegel, MD , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM to discuss the current mental health crisis and the future of psychiatry treatment. Sirius XM subscribers can hear the full conversation ; the extract below has been edited for length and clarity. Dr. Siegel: We’re having a mental health crisis in this country. Why? And what can we do about it? Dr. Marmar: It’s very complicated. I don’t think it’s entirely a crisis. I think it’s partially an awakening. I don’t view it through the lens of a sickness in society. It is true that there are some unique stressors. It is true, for example, that the challenges faced by Gen Z, by young people in middle school, high school, and early college now, are because of the inordinate amount of time they spend on devices. I was discussing this with my family. They went to see MJ: The Musical this weekend for Mother’s Day. And my 14-year-old granddaughters were saying that they’ve deeply identified with the anxiety and stress that Michael Jackson felt as a public figure, because they are exposed in social media as public figures. They’re not Michael Jackson, they’re not creative geniuses, but they empathize deeply with the fate of people who have no privacy and whose image can be damaged or destroyed through the flick of a button. So that does account for new forms of social anxiety, but with it comes a much deeper social awareness. “The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized and part of society and part of primary care.” When you and I were children, if we didn’t feel well, we went to see the school nurse. What [children now] do when they don’t feel well is they go to speak to the school psychologist. The notion of mental health and emotional stress and anxiety and depression has become normalized, and part of society and part of primary care. You’re a leading expert on post-traumatic stress disorder. What’s going on in the world right now in terms of post-traumatic stress, and what can we learn from it? Well, the world has always been troubled. It’s not clear to me that rates of trauma exposure are necessarily higher now than they were. I mean, after all, if you go back through historical periods when we lived more in tribal structures, we were very prone to illness and predatory forces of animals. We had very little protection against powerful acts of nature. We’ve always lived in a dangerous, uncontrollable, and unpredictable world. Most of us have seen the Oppenheimer movie. The threat of nuclear war is the threat of existential threat to all of humanity. There are new threats, for sure, but 2 percent of the entire world’s population was killed during World War II. So, we’ve always lived in very dangerous times. You’re working on precision medicine, which is applying personalized solutions using genetic understandings of variations and differences. How does that apply to post-traumatic stress disorder? Can artificial intelligence help you? We use it in precision medicine, or at least we use a somewhat more limited version of it, machine learning. So in our precision medicine studies of post-traumatic stress, we ascertain blood-brain imaging studies, cognitive studies, and others. We may have 2 million features to look at in each individual. And we use machine learning programs like Random Forest [classifiers] to find which of those features carries a signal to help us use drug A versus drug B. So that’s a simpler-use AI. “ At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars.” At the really creative edge, AI is being developed to create psychotherapy avatars. I’ve seen an example of one being developed by [the U.S. government’s Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, in which you sit down with this AI avatar and you tell them how you’re feeling. I did that, and they responded to me. My initial experience of the avatar’s response was that it was about as good as an empathic therapist. That s pretty good. That’s not bad. And by the way, think about how stigma-reducing that is. If you’re an active-duty military personnel, who would you rather talk to, Charlie Marmar or talk to an avatar? What about the way that you’re going to apply precision medicine in a family therapy unit or in a clinic? How is it going to be applied in psychiatry? One thing we need to be able to do is we need to be pragmatic. Millions of molecular features on each person in routine clinical care will have to be targeted. Ideally, what we would like to do is find those features in blood that are reliable enough to inform diagnosis and guide treatment for stress, anxiety, depression, alcohol, drug abuse, personality challenges, and so on, and have them be simple, affordable, and accessible enough that you, as an excellent primary care doctor, can bake them into your annual blood panel. So, you’ll get lipids, you’ll get liver-function tests, renal-function tests, and you’ll get psychiatry precision medicine tests. And they will just be part of a routine exam. And when you send your patient to the lab, we’ll get those marked. What tests am I going to do in the blood? I’m going to check serotonin levels, dopamine levels? We’re working on it. If I didn’t hold a patent on it, I would talk to you about it. What does the future hold for alcohol use disorder? First to say about alcohol use disorder, it’s very profound. It’s very prevalent. It takes a huge number of lives every year. It is horribly disorganizing to a person’s life, health, and career. And there are terrible tragedies from alcohol use disorder. We have new treatments, of course. We have [Alcoholics Anonymous], AA, and we have some therapies that are very helpful, but we have FDA-approved medications. We have three of them right now: acamprosate, disulfiram, and naltrexone. We have new ones in development. And there is great hope that we will be able to have precision medicine. I’m doing a large precision-medicine clinical trial to determine for whom topiramate, an anticonvulsant, is the best treatment for stress and alcohol. Where are we heading in mental health? We’re heading to, first, a major societal change in which mental health challenges such as stress, anxiety, and depression are considered part of life in the way infection and physical injury are considered part of life. They’re baked into mainstream medicine, and they will no longer carry stigma and shame. And children who are being anxious will go to their school counselor and not go to their school nurse with headaches and backaches and other difficulties, which are a proxy for their emotional problems. So it’s going to be normalized. It’s going to be part of primary care. One out of three of your patients in your primary care practice every day has a primary or secondary mental health problem, and it’ll be part of everyday medicine, and people will feel comfortable to disclose it. Second, we’re going to have safe and specific treatments, not just psychotherapy, not just medications, but direct ways to modulate the circuits in the brain to relieve these conditions. Charles R. Marmar, MD, is the Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Langone. Dr. Marmar’s research has led to breakthroughs in our understanding of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) through the study of police officers, soldiers in combat, veterans, and civilians who have been exposed to sudden, usually life-threatening events. He serves as director of NYU Langone’s PTSD Research Program. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA. Source: NYU Langone Health Every year, hundreds of physicians take the board exam for the Certificate of Added Qualification in Sports Medicine (CAQSM). Yet resources to help them prepare for the test have long been scarce. at NYU Langone Health is helping to fill that gap with a webinar series titled The New Metro: Sports Medicine Board Review Course. Launched in 2021 by Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA , medical director of Rusk’s sports rehabilitation program, and colleagues, the online offering is one of just a handful of CAQSM board review courses in the United States—and the only one that features presentations by leading experts from multiple academic institutions. Initially conducted only in real time, the course recently added an on-demand component so that participants across the country can access lecture content whenever they choose. Here, Dr. Portugal discusses The New Metro’s unique approach, and how it was influenced by his own experience as an athlete and a clinician. Dr. Portugal, please give us an overview of Rusk Rehabilitation’s sports medicine board review course. To begin with, what does it cover, and how is it structured? Dr. Portugal: The New Metro is a three-day course, held live online each June, that succinctly reviews high-yield board exam topics for the CAQSM. It features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts from institutions across metropolitan New York and beyond. Current primary care and PM&R [physical medicine and rehabilitation] sports medicine fellows are invited to attend, as are recertifying sports medicine physicians who plan to take the annual exam. “The New Metro features 18 hours of lecture content, delivered by some of the brightest sports medicine experts.” The content is based on a blueprint provided by the American Board of Family Medicine, which administers the exam, and the goal is to prepare participants for everything the test might throw at them. By the end, clinicians should be able to describe diagnostic protocols, treatment options, and return-to-activity guidelines for sport-related conditions and injuries; the management of a wide range of medical emergencies; the indications for use and mechanism of action of therapeutic drugs; and the impacts of performance-enhancing substances and drugs of abuse. They’ll be ready to answer questions about sport-specific joint kinematics and risk factors for injury, as well as the responsibilities of a team physician. This course is unique not only in its subject matter but in its multi-institutional roster of instructors. What led you to design it that way? In 2021, I was talking with Surein Theivakumar, DO —who at the time was one of my sports medicine fellows—about ways our program could collaborate with other sports medicine programs throughout New York City. It struck us that there were very few options nationwide for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives. “It struck us that there were very few options for sports medicine board review courses, and that a collaborative course would provide the widest range of expertise and professional perspectives.” Initially, we ran The New Metro entirely as live webinars. But last year, we added on-demand access to the lectures and PowerPoint materials. The obvious benefit is that it allows participants to study on their own schedule. Another advantage is that they can pause the videos. It can be challenging to absorb so much content all at once. This way, if there’s a topic people want to pay extra attention to, they can stop, look up more information, and replay the segment as often as necessary. [Recordings from this year’s course can be accessed online until November 30.] How do you choose your lecturers? We rely on our extensive professional network of physician educators, and on the recommendations from program directors of participating fellowship programs from within the New York City region. Our speakers have included , assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at NYU Langone and head team physician of U.S. Men’s Ski Jumping; Dean W. Padavan, MD , clinical assistant professor of medicine at Thomas Jefferson University, associate program director of the Atlantic Sports Health primary care sports medicine fellowship, and associate internist for the New York Jets; and Russell F. Camhi, DO , a primary care sports medicine physician with Northwell Health Orthopedic Institute and the head team physician for Hofstra University. We also offer lectures and Q&A sessions led by the course directors, who include myself and several Rusk Rehabilitation colleagues: Dr. Theivakumar, clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine and associate director of the PM&R residency program; , clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and rehabilitation medicine and a physician for the U.S. Ski team; Haruki Ishii, MD , clinical assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine; and Jina Libby, DO, former NYU Langone sports medicine fellow and current sports medicine physician at Penn State Health—State College. You’re the director of NYU Langone’s sports medicine fellowship program. Does the course play a role in that pedagogical effort? Absolutely. Besides preparing our fellows for the board exam, the course helps them gain broader insights and experience. Our current fellows are always invited to serve as course co-directors. That often provides their first exposure to the behind-the-scenes workings of continuing medical education, and what the process entails. In addition, several prior fellows have opted to continue as course instructors after their training—some of them after they’ve become faculty members at other institutions. You’re an athlete as well as a physician. How does this course reflect your own experience in both of those realms? I was a student–athlete in high school and at Fordham University. Like many of my peers, I sustained multiple injuries and often underwent rehabilitation through physical therapy. Serendipitously, faulty advice from my father—an ear, nose, and throat surgeon—to keep pushing through my pain motivated me to find my own answers to my ailments. This quest ultimately led me to become a sports medicine physiatrist. “We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field.” My experience in multiple sports when I was younger, and an active martial artist now, gives me an understanding of what athletes are looking to achieve—to push their bodies to the limit, and to get back in the game as soon as possible. And my experience as a sports medicine doctor helps me understand how important it is to educate physicians in this relatively new subspecialty. The American Medical Society for Sports Medicine was founded in 1991, and it still has only about 5,000 members. There aren’t enough physicians to meet the needs of athletes on the sidelines, whether they’re professionals or ordinary gym-goers. And in our aging society, there’s a huge need for doctors to help keep people active throughout their lifespan. I hope this course will become a collaborative model for others across the country. We’ve got to do all we can to educate clinicians in this high-demand and rapidly evolving field. Salvador E. Portugal, DO, MBA, is an assistant professor of rehabilitation, medical director of Sports Medicine Rehabilitation, and director of the Sports Medicine Fellowship Program. His research interests center on improved rehabilitation therapies for sports-related spinal and musculoskeletal conditions. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Jinpu Li, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Chronic pain impacts up to one-third of children and adolescents worldwide , but remains underdiagnosed and undertreated. This is due in part to an insufficient understanding of the root causes of pain and a shortage of interdisciplinary teams specializing in its treatment. Double board-certified in pediatric rehabilitation medicine and pain management, Jinpu Li, MD , NYU Langone Health’s director of pediatric chronic pain rehabilitation, prioritizes a multipronged approach to pediatric pain. Here, he explains his approach and the importance of integrated care in effectively managing chronic pain in young patients. Dr. Li, you emphasize education as a central element of your approach to chronic pain treatment. Can you expand on that? Dr. Li: By the time I see many of my patients, they have seen multiple specialists in other fields. And I’ve found that one of the most important things I give my patients as we begin their treatment is the simple acknowledgment that their pain exists and is very real. So I start by explaining the pathophysiological basis of pain. “I use the analogy of ‘camera’ and ‘snapshot.’ The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain.” I use the analogy of “camera” and “snapshot.” The brain acts as the camera; when tissue is injured, a signal is sent to the brain, which takes a snapshot and stores the image, registering it as pain. Normally, once the tissue heals, the brain deletes the snapshot, resolving the pain. But for some people, due to various reasons, the brain holds on to the snapshot and does not delete it, causing ongoing pain despite there being no tissue injury. Additionally, sometimes the brain is hypersensitive, taking snapshots of normal physiological functions, leading to pain perception without any actual injury. Many patients feel relieved after hearing this. They feel heard and understood. This is the first step of healing. What types of conditions do children typically present with in your practice? We see children and adolescents with a wide variety of pain-associated conditions, including musculoskeletal and spinal pain, chronic postsurgical and post-trauma pain, chronic secondary visceral pain, chronic neuropathic pain, and chronic headache and orofacial pain. Examples of these conditions are chronic pain related to sports injuries, herniated disc, facet-mediated back pain, neuropathic pain related to nerve injuries, and pain associated with joint hypermobility. We also frequently see primary pain disorders, in which the pain is not caused by an underlying disease or injury. Examples include complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) and amplified musculoskeletal pain syndrome (AMPS), which is similar to fibromyalgia and involves heightened pain perception. What is your general approach to treating these patients? Our approach is team-oriented and highly tailored to meet the needs of each patient and their family. We begin with a thorough intake appointment that assesses the patient’s complete medical history, psychological comorbidities, and functional status. We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics. Working closely with physical therapists, occupational therapists, social workers, and other specialists, we develop a comprehensive treatment plan that aligns with the patient’s and family’s specific needs and goals. “We also consider the family’s history and explore how the patient’s pain may result from—or contribute to—certain family dynamics.” The treatment plan typically includes a combination of medical interventions—such as oral medications, various muscle, joint and spinal injections, imaging-guided nerve blocks, and minimally invasive surgical procedures like implantable neuromodulation devices—alongside physical and occupational therapies and pain psychology. Can you tell us more about how pain psychology plays a role in your team approach to patient care? Pain management truly integrates both body and mind, as psychological factors can both contribute to and result from pain. For instance, a child with a history of abuse is at high risk for developing chronic pain. And children who live with pain often then have concomitant diagnoses of anxiety or depression. The anticipation of pain can lead to avoidant and maladaptive behaviors, as the child wants to do anything to avoid the onset of pain. This is why we collaborate closely with psychologists and social workers. They treat the entire family, providing cognitive–behavioral techniques to help children improve their coping skills, along with mindfulness practices and other support for parents and family members. What are some of the latest advancements in pain medicine that you might incorporate into a care plan? One of the exciting advancements in pain management is the emergence of neuromodulation. I am closely following the research on using transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) and transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) in managing chronic pain. We started using neuromodulation techniques like peripheral nerve stimulation and spinal cord stimulation for certain cases of refractory chronic pain in adolescents. “I think it’s a strength that in our field of pain rehabilitation, we’re focused on improving function, not simply reducing pain.” Importantly, pain management often requires trying several treatment approaches to find what works. For instance, for the past year, I have followed a patient who presented with erythromelalgia, which causes pain and burning in the lower extremities. The patient was experiencing frequent emergency room visits and hospital admissions for pain crises. After attempting a combination of medications and periodic nerve block treatments without significant improvement, we implanted a neuromodulation device, a peripheral nerve stimulator, which has meaningfully reduced his