change, the researchers add. “Antibiotic resistance is another major public health threat, and there is increasing concern about the contribution from use of antimicrobial drugs in food-producing animals,” Dr. Gupta says. “Overall, the findings are encouraging in light of the many benefits of plant-based diets for overall health, environmental sustainability, and animal welfare.” Further Research As a follow-up to this review, the researchers are planning a number of interventional studies. “We’re planning a pilot study for firefighters in New York City, which would include plant-based cooking demonstrations to promote healthy dietary shifts and men’s health,” Dr. Gupta says. “Providing guidance about healthy dietary patterns is a key component of holistic care.” Natasha Gupta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of urology and a postdoctoral scholar in population health. Her research and clinical interests focus on sexual health, plant-based diets, and cancer survivorship. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting This spring, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Urological Association’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See additional highlights here Friday, April 28 Office-Based Therapies : Society of Urodynamics, Female Pelvic Medicine & Urogenital Reconstruction (SUFU) Panelist : 12:40–1:20 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom A Debate Topic: Mini PCNL vs. Ureteroscopy for Medium-Sized Stones : Indian American Urological Association (IAUA) Debater Areeba Sadiq, MD : 8:30–8:45 am : Hyatt Regency McCormick Jackson Park MP19-14 Who Receives Third Line Therapies for Overactive Bladder? Trends from Data in the AUA AQUA Registry : Katherine Shapiro, MD NYU Langone Co-Authors : Dora Jericevic Schwartz, MD, : S401A MP14-01: Evaluation of a Novel Cystoscopic Cryocatheter for the Destruction of Bladder Cancer Anthony Corcoran, MD Aaron E. Katz, MD : S403 MP19-12: The Telemed Vasectomy Consult is a Safe Alternative to In-person Consults: A Retrospective Study in a High-Volume Center : Phillip Westbrook, MD Richard A. Schoor, MD 3:30–5:30 pm MP19-13: No Detectable Association between Virtual Setting for Vasectomy Consultation and Vasectomy Completion Rate : Ari Bernstein, MD : Hunter Hernandez, Ethan Zhu, Bryce Saba, Eli Rapoport, MD, Saturday, April 29 Podium Session PD12-09: Outcomes of 429 Primary Robotic Peritoneal Flap Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Cases : Gaines Blasdel : Charles Dubach-Reinhold; Elijah Castle, : 8:20–8:30 am : S401C PD12-10: Does Body Mass Index Influence Vaginoplasty Outcomes? : Elijah Castle : 8:30–8:40 am PD15-12: Impact of MRI Detected Hydrogel Spacer Rectal Wall Infiltration on Radiation-Related Toxicity Following 5-Fraction Prostate Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy Jonathan Haas, MD , Vianca Santos, MPH, Christopher Mendez, MA, CCRP, Astrid Sanchez, MS; Ankur M. Doshi, MD Angela Tong, MD : 8:50–9 am : S502 MP34-15: The Role of Ferroptosis in Neutrophils-Mediated Innate Immune Defense Against Urinary Tract Infection Yan Liu, PhD : 9:30–11:30 am : S405 Collaboration with Academic Institutions and International Independent Practice Research Symposium 11:04–11:13 am : N427A Q&A with Session Speakers : Independent Practice Research Symposium : 11:13–11:20 am MP42-13: Robotic Non-transecting Ureteral Reimplantation: A Multi-Institutional Experience : Brian Chao, MD : S505 MP45-10: Understanding the Sexual Health Concerns and Needs of Female Partners of Prostate Cancer Survivors : Nataliya Byrne, Tatiana Sanchez Nolasco, MPH, : S404C Sunday, April 30 My Pathway to Focal Therapy: Rationale for Novel Treatment of Prostate Cancer : Engineering and Urology Section of the Endourolgical Society (EUS) : 10:31–10:45 am : Marriott Marquis Chicago-Grand Horizon Ballroom A Plenary Presentation State of the Art Lecture: Role of Estrogen in Treatment of FSD, GSM, and UTIs : 1–1:15 pm : Hall B1 Podium Session MP61-18: Stimulated Raman Histology, a Novel Method for Intraoperative Surgical Margin Assessments During Robotic Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy : Miles P. Mannas, MD, Fang-Ming Deng, MD, PhD Samir S. Taneja, MD Active Surveillance 2.0: Impact of MRI and Biomarkers on Surveillance Strategy : Urological Society for American Veterans (USAV) : 1:35–1:55 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom C PD35-03 Robotic Posterior Urethroplasty: 105 Cases From a Single Center : Alex Wang, MD Ashley V. Alford, MD : 3:40–4 pm PD38-07: Stimulated Raman Histology Interpretation by Artificial Intelligence Can Provide Real-Time Pathologic Feedback of Prostate Biopsies Derek H. Jones, MD Deepthi Hoskoppal, MD Jonathan Melamed, MD : 4:30­–4:40 pm GU Robotic Reconstruction : 4:30–5:30 pm Monday, May 1 MP73-14: Biopsy Assessment of Oncologic Control Three Years Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) : Eli Rapoport, MD, Rozalba Gogaj, MD, MPH, : 7–9 am : S504 Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting PHOTO: Christopher Alvarenga via Unsplash This June, our researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the annual ASCO meeting in Chicago. This year’s program featured over 200 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Advancing Equitable Cancer Care Through Innovation . View Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). June 4 Cancer: Common Humanity, Different Worlds Speaker: Kevin Diasti, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Arie Crown Theater Doubling Down on Immunotherapy Kristen Renee Spencer, DO, MPH , director, Phase I Program, Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU, assistant professor of medicine, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Poster Session Experiences of researchers fulfilling VHA’s “fourth mission” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Presenter: Kenneth Csehak, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Safety and efficacy of daratumumab use in patients with renal impairment and hemodialysis. Presenter: Mateusz Niewinski, BA, BPS, PharmD, pharmacy resident, NYU Langone Health June 5 Endometrial Cancer Barriers in the LGBTQ Community Gwendolyn Quinn, PhD , the Livia S. Wan, M.D. Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, professor, Department of Population Health Location: E253b | In-Person Only TAK-676 in combination with pembrolizumab after radiation therapy in patients (pts) with advanced non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), or squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN): Phase 1 study design. Benjamin Thomas Cooper, MD , assistant professor, Department of Radiation Oncology BASECAMP-1: Leveraging human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in solid tumors by next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify patients with relapsed solid tumor for future logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy. Presenter: Diane M. Simeone, MD, the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Surgery, Departments of Surgery and Pathology Phase 1 results of a phase 1/2 trial of CYT-0851, a first-in-class inhibitor of RAD51-mediated homologous recombination, in patients with advanced solid and hematologic cancers. , clinical assistant professor, Department of Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, medical oncologist, Perlmutter Cancer Center June 6 Examination of speakership gender disparity at an international oncology conference. Presenter: Jessica Caro, MD, chief fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: E350 PD-1 Plus X: Which Combinations in Early Development Are Showing the Most Promise? , professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: S100a Activity of adagrasib (MRTX849) in patients with KRASG12C-mutated NSCLC and active, untreated CNS metastases in the KRYSTAL-1 trial. Joshua K. Sabari, MD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Hall D1 Racial concordance and trust in health communications: A randomized trial of videos about prostate cancer. , professor, Departments of Urology, and Population Health A phase 1/2 study of BLU-945 in patients with common activating EGFR -mutant non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): SYMPHONY trial in progress. What is driving declines in oncology-prescribed opioids? Presenter: Tarlise Townsend, PhD, postdoctoral fellow, Department of Population Health, Division of Epidemiology, NYU Langone Health Center for Opioid Epidemiology & Policy ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin alfa monotherapy in patients with advanced mucosal and cutaneous melanoma. , the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology A phase 1/2 multicenter investigator-initiated trial of DKN-01 as monotherapy or in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). David R. Wise, MD, PhD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Department of Urology Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Cryoablation is an established therapeutic option for patients with radiation-recurrent prostate cancer. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules New research projects, clinical initiatives aim to clarify risk factors and improve screening. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Researchers are testing a more proactive approach to address screening inequities. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Patient’s CT urogram prior to enrollment in CheckMate 9UT. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Bladder Preservation Poses a Difficult Dilemma Having deferred radical cystectomy for years, a patient with a long history of recurrent high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), who became unresponsive to bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), responded well after ultimately undergoing surgery and urinary diversion. Gary D. Steinberg, MD , director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at , the case is representative of a common clinical conundrum—is it safe to defer or avoid radical cystectomy for BCG-unresponsive high-risk disease? While radical cystectomy is highly curative, many patients decline to undergo the procedure due to the life-altering consequences and reduced quality of life. “The risk of progression to muscle invasion and/or metastatic disease is greatly increased for patients with high-grade non-muscle invasive bladder cancer that does not respond to BCG,” Dr. Steinberg says. “In general, progression may occur within six to 12 months.” The patient, a white male in his 70s, was initally diagnosed in 2011 with T1 high-grade NMIBC. In addition to BCG, his prior treatment history included mitomycin-C and interferon (IFN)-α. “The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes.” After presenting to NYU Langone Health in 2019 for evaluation and management, the patient was diagnosed with BCG-unresponsive carcinoma of the bladder and counselled on radical cystectomy—being the standard of care per national and international guidelines—as well as alternative therapies and clinical trials. Aiming to preserve his bladder, the patient opted to enroll in CheckMate 9UT * . He was assigned to the three-drug arm and began treatment. When pathology revealed recurrence at six-month follow-up, the patient elected to undergo radical cystectomy and ileal conduit urinary diversion. Due to urothelial carcinoma involving the prostatic urethra, urinary diversion through orthotopic neobladder reconstruction was contraindicated. The patient regained significant function four weeks after surgery and currently shows no evidence of disease. The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes,” Dr. Steinberg says. The CheckMate 9UT trial closed without reaching accrual goals due to low patient enrollment caused by the BCG shortage and the COVID-19 pandemic Enrollment in the CheckMate 9UT Trial The patient presented with a history of high-risk NMIBC that persisted and recurred despite intravesical BCG immunotherapy. Choosing to avoid radical cystectomy, the patient elected to enroll in CheckMate 9UT, a phase 2 combination immunotherapy study, and was enrolled to the three-drug arm—nivolumab with linrodostat with BCG. Cancer Recurrence Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff After completing treatment, complete response was noted at first response assessment. However, cystoscopy at six-month follow-up revealed a multifocal necrotic tumor as well as multiple papillary/sessile tumors with more than 5 centimeters bladder involvement. Pathology confirmed carcinoma of the right bladder wall, anterior bladder wall, and prostatic urethra. Observations During Radical Cystectomy Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation, and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient ultimately elected radical cystectomy and urinary diversion. While the surgery was uncomplicated, during the procedure the patient was noted to have bilateral hydroureteronephrosis, dense pelvic lymph nodes with some enlarged lymph nodes, dense scar tissue and fibrosis, and a short, thick wall intestinal mesentery. Gary D. Steinberg, MD, is a professor of urology and director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in radical cystectomy and urinary tract reconstruction and leads multiple clinical trials investigating new medications and procedures for the treatment of bladder cancer. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation Research explores a new modeling technique for personalized, precision treatment. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line A slew of new treatments may help ease reliance on BCG, radical cystectomy. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology Research reveals urologic misinformation abounds, but also opportunities to advance patient care and equity. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Black men are disproportionately affected by prostate cancer, which is is the second leading cause of cancer death among men in the U.S., although mortality has dropped since the adoption of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening. recommend a shared decision-making approach to PSA screening between at-risk men and their healthcare providers. , an associate professor of urology and population health and , an associate professor of population health and medicine, have initiated a randomized clinical trial to evaluate whether a community health worker (CHW)-led decision coaching model can be a feasible, low-cost intervention to improve patient decision-making for prostate cancer screening among Black male patients and their healthcare providers. The trial is funded by the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities and is done in partnership with Flatbush Family Health Clinic. Pervasive Disparities Why are Black men disproportionately affected by prostate cancer? Dr. Makarov: Prostate cancer comprises approximately one third of all new cancers in Black men, but the incidence rate is 70 percent higher for Black men compared with other groups, and mortality is 2-3 times higher relative to white men. “Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes.” Previous data have shown that low socioeconomic status is a predictor of poor prostate cancer outcomes, including mortality, but the Black/white disparity persists even when adjusting for other factors. Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes. CHWs Support Shared Decision-Making Can you explain shared decision-making in the context of PSA screening and your research? An informed decision-making, or shared decision-making approach, to PSA screening includes three critical steps: information exchange, deliberation, and ultimately a shared decision between the patient and healthcare provider. Most prostate cancer screening decisions do not meet the criteria for this as they lack a balanced discussion of decision consequences and preference clarification. We believe that shared decision-making is very important especially for Black men, among whom the balance of risks and benefits is not definitively established, but likely favors screening. What is unique about a CHW-led intervention model? Dr. Ravenell: The strength of the CHW model is derived from its roots of community organizing, social support, social networks, self-efficacy, and peer models. In general, it’s an effective model in communities that need a culturally sensitive, contextualized approach to health promotion and intervention. Prior research, including work by our team at NYU Langone Health , suggests CHWs are effective in supporting cancer screening decisions in the Black community. Testing the CHW-Led Intervention What are you hoping to learn from this trial and how does it work? Our study has four aims To test whether a CHW-led decision coaching program affects decision quality, the decision-making process, patient-provider communication, and PSA utilization for Black men in the primary care setting; To assess whether a CHW-led decision coaching program improves provider experience with counseling Black men considering PSA screening; To determine the cost and budget impact of a CHW-led decision coaching program for PSA screening; and To assess participant attitudes, behaviors, and norms around PSA screening, and assess perceptions of the feasibility, acceptability, and sustainability of CHW-led decision coaching in the primary care setting. The study is being conducted at a primary care clinic in Brooklyn. Participants in the intervention arm will receive a decision aid by mail and CHW-led decision coaching on PSA screening one hour before their appointment, while those in the control arm will receive the same decision aid by mail, but have a CHW-led discussion on cardiovascular dietary and lifestyle modification rather than PSA screening. The discussion of cardiovascular risk reduction serves as an attention control. What is the current status of the trial? Do you have any preliminary results? This trial is ongoing. Recruitment started in June 2019 and we are still accruing. The trial procedures are expected to be completed by the end of March 2023. What other equity and minority health initiatives are ongoing at NYU Langone Health? We have a range of initiatives led or coordinated by our centered on the promotion of equity and health for all our patients. Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Joseph Ravenell, MD is an associate professor of population health and medicine, and associate dean for diversity and inclusion. His research interests include developing and testing novel community-engaged strategies to improve cancer screening and cardiovascular disease prevention among underserved populations. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules Over the last several years, NYU Langone Health has built a rapidly growing program to expand access to lung cancer screening , regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. This effort is not only improving early detection, but also increasing the frequency at which physicians are faced with complex decisions about nonspecific lung nodules. “About 30 percent of people getting lung cancer screening will have nonspecific nodules, and we don’t know what they mean,” says . “The question is, which one of those nodules is going to change? And can we predict that earlier?” To pave the way for clear, informed treatment recommendations for nonspecific lung nodules, NYU Langone investigators have launched several research projects and clinical initiatives, all with the central focus of better understanding which nodules are and are not likely to be cancerous. A Focus on Risk Factors in Nonsmokers To elucidate risk factors and biomarkers, the investigators have turned their attention to the surprisingly high proportion of lung cancers in nonsmokers. “Between 15 to 20 percent of lung cancers are found in nonsmokers,” says Dr. Chachoua. “This is a different disease in terms of molecular features. Even the demographics tend to be younger.” An initial focus of this work is on Asian women. Over 40 percent of Asian women diagnosed with lung cancer are nonsmokers—roughly double the rate of the general population—and the cause is unclear. In an ongoing three-year study led by , an oncologist and assistant professor of medicine, nonsmoking Asian American women in the New York City area will receive an annual low-dose CT chest scan, donate blood samples, and provide information on family history and environmental and World Trade Center dust exposures. The goal is two-pronged: to determine lung cancer incidence in Asian American women and build a database and biorepository that can be used to identify factors that contribute to the development of cancerous nodules. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer.” Currently, there are over 80 participants enrolled, of which 73 have completed initial CT scans. “Two cancers have been found in this group, which is an incidence of 2.7 percent. That is similar to the incidence of lung cancer in smokers,” Dr. Chachoua says. “Our study continues to increase its enrollment, but these early cases are encouraging that our idea to screen another potential high-risk population may be of benefit,” Dr. Shum adds. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer, not just in Asian women nonsmokers but in all nonsmokers.” Detecting Patterns in DNA Fragments A concurrent biomarker study is assessing whether fragments of tumor DNA in peripheral blood yield patterns indicative of lung cancer. The study is led by Dr. Shum, , director of the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Jun-Chieh J. Tsay, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, in collaboration with Delfi Diagnostics. The goal is to assess whether patients who are screened and ultimately found to have cancerous nodules have a different DNA fragmentation pattern than those who are screened and aren’t found to have lung cancer. “All of the patients enrolled in our study of lung cancer in nonsmoking Asian American females have had this test done,” explains Dr. Chachoua. “It will be interesting to see whether the two patients identified with cancer will have unique signatures by DNA fragmentation. That will be a big innovation for the field.” Diverse Research Ahead Additional research projects on the horizon will evaluate whether breath tests or readouts from the lung microbiome can be used to detect cancerous nodules. Dr. Chachoua also notes an interest addressing why a low percentage of patients eligible for screening come in to receive a scan. “We’ve had 655 referrals since we started the lung cancer screening program. About 40 percent are eligible for screening, and out of the eligible patients only 67 percent got their scan,” Dr. Chachoua says. “We’re going to do a population science study in that area to address the gap.” Assembling Experts to Review Nonspecific Nodules Another notable development is the formation of a lung nodule review board, which reviews all nodules with Lung-RADS scores of 3 or 4—those that are of high suspicion to become cancer. “After forming this dedicated team, we found that about 26 percent of the reports changed, and some of those changes led to earlier identification of cancers,” Dr. Chachoua says. Dr. Chachoua says a full account of how the review board is helping to elevate the treatment of suspicious nodules will be presented at an upcoming national meeting. Abraham Chachoua, MD, is Jay and Isabel Fine Professor of Oncology, section chief of medical oncology, and director of the Lung Cancer Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treatment of cancers of the lung and chest. Elaine Shum, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine. She specializes in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, and other thoracic cancers. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the American Urologic Association annual conference in New Orleans, May 13 - 16. Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer MRI 12 months following salvage cryotherapy. Red arrow indicates area of ablation. Salvage Cryoablation Following RT Failure For individuals with locally recurrent prostate cancer , salvage cryotherapy has become a preferred treatment option with curative potential. , professor of urology and an early pioneer of the technique, explains that while therapy for patients with radiation-recurrent disease needs to be individualized, salvage cryoablation is often a treatment of choice for patients in this setting. “Cryotherapy ablates all tissue in a targeted area, which allows us to freeze and destroy tissue beyond the confines of the prostate gland, offering an advantage compared to other treatment options,” says Dr. Katz. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting. It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” Importance of PSA Monitoring Monitoring prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after treatment of localized disease can lead to the detection of biochemical recurrence. In many cases, rises in serum PSA above baseline do not co-occur with symptoms of recurrent prostate cancer. “For patients with a confirmed rise in serum PSA after prior definitive RT, careful assessment is required to rule out distant metastases,” says Dr. Katz. In the last 5 years, the use of novel PET/CT imaging modalities such as the Axumin (fluciclovine F 18) and PYLARIFY (piflufolastat F 18) scans have dramatically improved the detection of recurrent disease. Both imaging technologies are available at NYU Langone. “After detection of recurrent disease, the goal of salvage cryotherapy is to delay initiation of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), which can have deleterious side effects,” explains Dr. Katz. Better Outcomes, Covered by Medicare The 5- and 10-year disease-specific survival rates following salvage cryoablation are 91% and 79%, respectively. In addition, the procedure is covered under Medicare for patients with localized disease who have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment and meet other conditions. Furthermore, current guidelines from the American Urological Association (AUA) support cryotherapy as an option in this setting. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting,” says Dr. Katz. “It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” How Does Cryotherapy Work? Schematic illustration of cryotherapy. ADAPTED FROM: World J Urol. 2019;37(3):409-418. Cryotherapy causes tissue damage and vascular injury around the cryoneedle. The cryotherapy device consists of an ultrasound-guided system, 17-gauge cryoneedles, thermocouples, and argon and helium inlets. The procedure consists of two freeze and thaw cycles. The procedure can take place in an outpatient setting under spinal anesthesia. Magnetic resonance (MR)-guided cryotherapy has proved to allow for real-time imaging of the ablated zone by active monitoring. A Treatment with Curative Potential Cryotherapy being performed in an operating room. For patients with locally recurrent prostate cancer, cryoablation offers the potential for cure. Other salvage treatment options for patients with a positive prostate biopsy, without evidence of metastatic disease, include radical prostatectomy and brachytherapy. However, cryotherapy offers unique advantages compared to these approaches. Benefits of Salvage Cryoablation No hospital stay No transfusions No delayed/long-term complications No risk of secondary malignancy Repeatable Low incontinence rates Minimal anesthesia Quick return to “normal life” Covered by Medicare, Recommended by Guidelines A cryotherapy probe. Medicare covers cryosurgical salvage therapy for patients with localized disease who: (1) have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment; and (2) meet one of the following conditions: Stage T2B or below, Gleason score < 9, PSA < 8 ng/mL. Current guidelines from the also support cryotherapy as an option for patients. Additional Clinical Trials for Localized Prostate Cancer In collaboration with Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, , is leading the INTREPId clinical trial evaluating whether darolutamide plus radiation therapy (RT) is non-inferior to GnRH agonist and bicalutamide plus RT for intermediate risk prostate cancer. “The goal of this trial is to determine whether men who receive darolutamide and RT are better able to preserve erectile function without sacrificing the potential for long-term disease control,” says Dr. Katz. Aaron E. Katz, MD, is a professor and chair of urology at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. His research and clinical interests include the use of salvage cryoablation for the treatment of individuals with recurrent prostate cancer after radiation therapy. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty In a study of 199 patients who underwent gender-affirming robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, 86% who completed one year or more of follow up were orgasmic, and the median time to achieve orgasm post-surgery was 180 days. Some previously anorgasmic patients also became newly orgasmic. ADAPTED FROM: J Sex Med . 2022 March;19:781-788. Journal of Sexual Medicine finds that 86 percent of patients undergoing robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty at NYU Langone Health are able to achieve orgasm within one year of the surgery. “We developed the robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty and we’ve performed more of these procedures than any other center,” says study co-author and urologic surgeon , co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in . So far, the team has completed more than 500 of the gender-affirming surgeries, with low complication and revision rates. The new retrospective study is the first to quantify the time needed for patients to regain their post-surgery orgasmic ability. “One of the things that’s unique about this study is that people hadn’t really measured it previously,” says study co-author , a urologic surgeon and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery. Pre-surgery, only 81 percent of patients were able to achieve orgasm without difficulty. Post-surgery, Dr. Bluebond-Langner says some of the previously anorgasmic patients became newly orgasmic. “The nerves have to be present,” she says. “But then there’s a mind–body connection, there are hormonal influences, there are emotional influences, and there’s just connecting to your new anatomy.” “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state. With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” NYU Langone takes a holistic approach to supporting patients in their post-surgical care, Dr. Zhao notes, with the involvement of nurse navigators, social workers, physical therapists, and other specialists. “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state,” he says. “With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” “Patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable. Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” The personalized follow-up, Dr. Bluebond-Langner adds, is a big key to the success of the gender-affirming surgery. “It’s important to emphasize that patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable,” she says. “Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” Plastic Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Rachel Bluebond-Langner, MD, is the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and an associate professor of urology. Lee C. Zhao, MD (He/Him) Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Lee C. Zhao, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Urology and Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in Transgender Surgery Services. He specializes in reconstructive surgery for reproductive organs and the urinary system. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology A noted physician-researcher and population health expert, , is interested in the impact of social media on men’s health decision-making. Her research quantifying the extent of misinformation across social media platforms has been published in BJU International, European Urology, Nature Reviews Urology, and Reviews in Urology. Here, Dr. Loeb shares how those research findings inform her clinical care and population health initiatives. Your research has revealed just how strongly social media impacts public understanding of urologic conditions. How have you and your colleagues approached that research? For as long as we’ve had social media, we’ve known it can be a powerful patient education tool—and a source of harmful misinformation. For several years we’ve worked to quantify misinformation around urologic conditions, finding substantial bias and erroneous information across multiple conditions and social media platforms. In one , for example, we found that out of 150 YouTube bladder cancer videos, 67 percent contained poor-quality information. Considering these videos reached more than 1.2 million people, that’s a concern. Similar findings have been reflected in our other studies, including high levels of biased and misinformative content about prostate cancer on YouTube, TikTok and Instagram. What does your research indicate about potential methods to combat urologic misinformation online? We’ve studied short- and long-term solutions to address the misinformation problem. Much of our focus has been on disseminating evidence-based information about urologic health conditions to increase engagement around vetted content and key research. For example, with the Prostate Cancer Foundation, I launched a Prostate Cancer Journal Club on Twitter, where we engage in a global discussion with multidisciplinary audiences—scientists, providers, patients, and other stakeholders—around important research articles and findings. Long-term, we have a collaboration with computer scientists at the University of Michigan, examining whether machine learning can be used to automatically detect misinformation about prostate cancer. If our algorithm could accurately identify misinformation in online content, this could be used to help provide a smarter search filter for health consumers. You’ve highlighted the downfalls of social