2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 1 Rev. 1 10 24 PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS The Purchase Order issued to the “Seller”, as specified on the Purchase Order, by NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”), NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUGSOM”), NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine (“NYU GLISOM”), NYU Langone Health System (the “System”), or any entity controlled by any of them, as the case may be, (any of which being “Buyer”, as specified on the Purchase Order) and these Terms and Conditions (collectively, the “Purchase Order” or “Order”) are the exclusive terms and conditions with respect to the purchase and sale of goods, materials and equipment (“Goods”) and/or of labor or services (“Services”) specified in the Purchase Order. 1. Contract; Acceptance; Order of Precedence. Buyer shall not be bound by the Purchase Order until it is accepted by Seller, which shall be deemed to occur on the earlier of the following: (a) Seller does not object in writing to any of term or provision within two (2) business days after issuance of the Purchase Order, or (b) Seller commences performance of the Purchase Order. Upon acceptance, the Purchase Order shall constitute a binding contract between Buyer and Seller. The Purchase Order contains the complete and final agreement between Buyer and Seller and supersedes and replaces any and all prior discussions and agreements between Buyer and Seller. No additional or different terms, whether printed or otherwise, in Seller’s quotation, document or any other communication from Seller to Buyer (including the provisions of any click wrap agreement, or similar form of agreement which may have been affirmatively accepted by Buyer’s authorized users) shall be binding on Buyer unless specifically agreed to in writing by an authorized representative from Buyer’s Supply Chain Management Department. No acceptance shall be effective which varies the terms of the Purchase Order or proposes additional terms. Any such proposals are deemed rejected. 2. Changes. Buyer may from time to time by written notice to Seller make changes in specifications, design, delivery schedules (postponements only), testing, packing or designation. If any such change causes an increase or decrease in the cost and/or time required for performance, an equitable adjustment shall be made and the Purchase Order modified accordingly. Price increases or extensions of time for delivery shall not be binding on Buyer unless approved by Buyer. 3. Termination. Buyer, in its sole discretion and with or without cause, may cancel the Purchase Order, in whole or in part, at any time upon notice to Seller without incurring liability to Seller for lost or anticipated profits, or any other costs or damages, other than the proportionate value of the purchase price for the Goods and/or Services performed or delivered prior to the effective date of termination. In addition to any other remedy provided herein, at law or equity, Buyer shall have the right to terminate or cancel an Order, and any obligation to purchase a product or service by giving thirty (30) days written notice to Seller, in the event Seller: (a) fails to comply with any condition of the Order or any related agreement, and such failure is not remedied within thirty (30) days after written notice thereof has been given to Seller; (b) becomes insolvent, makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, suffers or permits the appointment of a receiver, trustee in bankruptcy or similar officer for all or parts of its business or assets; or (c) avails itself of or becomes subject to any bankruptcy proceeding under the laws or any jurisdiction relating to insolvency or the protection of rights of creditors. Upon receipt of a notice of termination, unless instructed otherwise by Buyer, Seller shall stop all work as directed in the notice, including placing further orders for materials, services, subcontracts, except as necessary to continue performance under any other terms of the Order (if not affected by the termination notice). Unless Buyer has requested and received a refund in respect of any undelivered product(s) or terminated Services, it shall be entitled to the delivery of all Goods and completion of all Services for which it has paid prior to the effective date of the termination. To the extent the Purchase Order covers stock Goods, Buyer’s only obligation is to pay for Goods accepted by Buyer prior to such termination. To the extent the Purchase Order covers Goods manufactured or fabricated to Buyer’s specifications, Seller shall immediately cease all performance upon receipt of the notice of termination and any claim of Seller shall be settled on the basis of reasonable costs it has incurred in the performance of the Order. 4. Essential Term; Performance Delays; Force Majeure. (a) Time is of the essence in Seller’s performance of the Purchase Order. If Goods are not delivered or Services rendered within the time periods specified in the Purchase Order, Buyer may without any liability, agree on a new delivery date in writing or terminate all of part of the Purchase Order and/or relevant agreement for the then remaining balance thereof by notice effective upon receipt by Seller, or purchase substitute Goods or Services elsewhere and charge Seller with any loss incurred. Seller shall refund Buyer any deposit and any prepaid and unused amounts paid by Buyer for all the Goods and/or Services covered by the terminated Purchase Order and/or relevant agreement. (b) A Force Majeure event shall not constitute default hereunder. The term “Force Majeure” shall mean any unforeseen event affecting a party’s performance without such party’s fault or negligence and which is due to causes beyond such party’s control, including, without limitation, acts of God or of public enemy, any act of government, court orders, shelter in place orders, fires, hurricane, earthquake, floods, freight embargoes, unusually severe weather, riots, civil commotion, war, insurrection, typhoon, pandemic, tidal wave, plague, quarantine, epidemic, or any act of terrorism. The party affected by the Force Majeure shall provide the other party with written notice of a delay and cause thereof and use its best efforts to continue or resume performance as soon as reasonably practicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Force Majeure affects either party or both and lasts for more 2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 2 Rev. 1 10 24 than ten (10) days, Buyer may in its discretion, upon notice to Seller, (i) extend the time for performance of the Services or any obligations by at least a period of time equal to the duration of the Force Majeure or (ii) terminate all or part of the Purchase Order and/or the relevant agreement (effective upon Seller’s receipt of the notice), without being held in breach and, in case of Seller’s Force Majeure, source the relevant Goods and/or Services from another third party. In the event of termination under this section, Seller shall refund Buyer any deposit and any prepaid and unused amounts paid by Buyer for all the Good and/or Services covered by the terminated Purchase Order and/or relevant agreement (if any). 5. Inspection and Rejection. Payment for Goods and/or Services shall not constitute acceptance thereof. All Goods are subject to Buyer’s inspection, at the source if deemed necessary by Buyer. Final inspection shall be at Buyer’s premises unless otherwise agreed in writing. If any of the Goods and/or Services are found at any time to be defective in material or workmanship or otherwise not in conformity with the requirements of an Order, including any drawings and specifications, Buyer shall have the right, in addition to any other rights which Buyer may have under warranties or otherwise, to reject and return such goods at Seller’s expense, and such goods shall not be replaced without written authorization from Buyer. Supplies in excess of quantities ordered may be returned to Seller at its expense. Failure by Buyer to inspect and/or test the Goods shall not be deemed acceptance by Buyer. Buyer’s remedies herein reserved shall be cumulative and additional to any other or further remedies provided in law or equity. 6. Shipment; Risk of Loss. Goods shall be packed and shipped by Seller in accordance with Buyer’s instructions and good commercial practice. Seller shall indicate on each package shipped, including drop ships packages, and on the packing slip the applicable Buyer’s Purchase Order Number, with each packing slip listing the contents on the package. If Goods are not shipped in accordance with Buyer’s direction and the instructions set forth in the Purchase Order, Seller shall grant to Buyer the right to setoff for any excess cost incurred by Buyer as a result. Shipments must be labeled appropriately for handling of fragile, electrical, chemicals, temperature sensitive, perishable, biological, radioactive or otherwise hazardous equipment or materials as required by applicable laws. Seller shall pay all related freight costs. Seller shall bear all risk of loss of or damage until the Goods are delivered as specified in the Order, inspected (without being rejected) by Buyer, and, where applicable, assembled, calibrated and/or installed by Seller. 7. Pricing. Buyer will pay Seller only for the Goods and Services and at such prices as stated in the Purchase Order. No charge for packing, insurance, handling costs or transportation will be allowed except as stated in the Purchase Order. Prices charged Buyer will not exceed Seller's lowest price and sale terms relating thereto will not be less favorable than those, in effect at the date of shipment or performance for Goods of substantially same kind, except as otherwise agreed in writing by Buyer. In the event Buyer becomes entitled to such lower prices, but has already made payment at the higher price, Seller shall promptly refund the difference in price to Buyer. Discount terms begin with the receipt of the invoice or the Goods, whichever is later. Buyer may withhold charges that are under dispute until the matter is resolved. In the event Seller requests a change to its bank account information for payments, Buyer may delay payment for any invoice up to forty five (45) days to allow Buyer to validate the bank account information prior to the disbursement of payment. During such time Seller shall not suspend its services nor put Buyer on credit hold. If the Purchase Order involves drugs or other pharmaceutical products, Seller acknowledges that federal law constrains the prices that may be charged by suppliers for Medicaid reimbursement under 42 U.S.C. §1396r 8 or any successor statute. 8. Warranties. In addition to this and other warranties which may be prescribed by law, Seller warrants that the Goods to be delivered pursuant to the Purchase Order: (a) will at all times conform to the specifications, drawings, samples or other descriptions, oral or written, furnished to or specified by Buyer; (b) will be merchantable, of good quality, material and workmanship and free from defects of design, material or workmanship; (c) will be fit for the purposes for which intended; (d) do not infringe or misappropriate the rights of any third party or violate any law; and (e) were not produced, manufactured, priced or sold in violation of any law, including, without limitation, the Fair Labor Standards Act. Seller further warrants that Services under the Purchase Order will be performed in a diligent, workmanlike and professional manner, in accordance with applicable law and industry standards. All warranties, both express and implied, will survive delivery, inspection, acceptance and payment. In addition, Seller warrants that Seller has free, clear title to any and all Goods, free of all liens, security interests and encumbrances. Upon Buyer’s notice, Seller, at its own expense, shall promptly replace or correct defects of any goods or services not conforming to the foregoing warranty. If Seller fails to promptly correct defects or replace non conforming goods or services, Buyer may, upon notice to Seller, make such corrections at Seller's expense or cancel the Order and/or the then remaining balance without any penalty or damages. 9. Manufacturer Warranty. Seller agrees that all warranties and representations made by the manufacturer are intended to be and shall pass through to Buyer. Seller shall take all necessary steps to ensure that such warranties and representations flow through, to and for the benefit of Buyer, and that the effective date of such warranties starts the first day of use. Seller further represents that it has not and will not enter into any agreements with the manufacturer providing that the sale or use of Goods as contemplated by the Purchase Order shall in any way limit, negate or nullify such manufacturer’s warranty. 10. Proprietary Rights. To the extent not automatically vested in Buyer, Seller hereby assigns to Buyer ownership of all Goods to be provided hereunder. In addition, unless otherwise specifically agreed in the Purchase Order, works to be created and/or developed and produced for Buyer and any documentation or other products and/or results of the Services to be rendered by Seller (including any associated invention, improvement, discovery or innovation made, conceived or actually reduced to practice by Seller as a result of performing the Services) (the “Work”) shall be deemed “work made for hire” as that phrase is understood under 2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 3 Rev. 1 10 24 the copyright laws of the United States and shall be owned exclusively by Buyer, including all copyright, patent and other proprietary and intellectual property rights therein, and such rights are hereby conveyed to Buyer. Seller agrees that its assigns, agents, successors, and representatives will not have the right to make any claims in any way or with regard to any aspect of, the Work. Should the Work not be considered “work made for hire” under applicable law, Seller hereby sells, assigns, and transfers to Buyer, its successors and assigns, its right, title and interest in the Work, and any related registrations and copyright applications, and any renewals and extensions thereof, and in and to all works based upon, derived from, or incorporating the Work, and, in and to all income, royalties, damages, claims and payments now or hereafter due or payable with respect thereto, and in and to all causes of action, either in law or in equity for past, present, or future infringement based on the copyrights, and in and to all corresponding rights throughout the world. Seller agrees to execute all documents and to perform such other acts as Buyer may deem necessary to secure for it or its designee the rights herein assigned. In addition, if the Services performed by Seller result in an invention, improvement, discovery or innovation, Seller shall promptly disclose the same to Buyer in writing. Such invention, improvement, discovery or innovation and any resulting patent rights shall become the exclusive property of Buyer, and Buyer shall be the sole party entitled to the rights, title and interest in and to the invention. At Buyer’s request, Seller shall promptly deliver, execute, file and record all documentation evidencing such assignment. 11. Record Retention and Access. In the event the Purchase Order involves or relates to (a) the provision of services under Medicare and (b) Goods or Services exceeding the aggregate purchase price of $10,000 during any 12 month period, Seller shall, in accordance with Section 952 of the Omnibus Reconciliation Action of 1980 and all amendments thereto, make available to the United States Department of Health and Human Services, the Comptroller General and their representatives (“HHS”) the Purchase Order and all other books, documents and records of Seller as are necessary to certify the nature and extent of the costs incurred by Buyer for at least four (4) years after Seller furnishes the Goods or Services specified in the Order. In addition, this provision will be contained in any agreement between Seller and any subcontractor of Goods or Services under the Purchase Order. Seller will give Buyer notice of any request made directly by HHS upon Seller. 12. Insurance. Seller will procure and maintain the following types and amounts of insurance coverage: (a) commercial general liability insurance, written on an occurrence basis in amounts of not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence/$4,000,000 in the annual aggregate, including coverage for contractual liability, products and completed operations, personal injury, bodily injury, broad form property and damage endorsements, and if applicable, liquor liability endorsements if the Purchase Order includes service of alcohol; (b) if Seller provides goods or services in which Seller accesses NYU Langone Health’s information technology networks or systems for any reasons, cyber insurance with a minimum of $5,000,000; (c) if the Purchase Order requires Seller to be on site at Buyer’s facilities, (i) statutory worker’s compensation insurance and employer’s liability insurance in amounts of not less than $1,000,000 for each accident (unless Seller is a sole proprietorship, in which event such insurance shall not be required), and (ii) automobile liability insurance covering all owned, non owned and hired vehicles for not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence; and (d) professional liability (errors and omissions) insurance with limits of not less than $2,000,000 if the Purchase Order covers the provision of professional services. Seller shall submit certificates of insurance evidencing general liability coverage (and, to the extent applicable, automobile liability) naming the Buyer as an additional insured, to (1) Buyer’s Director of Insurance at One Park Avenue, 4th floor, New York, NY 10016 if Buyer is NYULH, the System, or another entity (other than NYUGSOM or RED+F), or (2) Buyer’s Director of Insurance at 105 East 17th Street, 4th Floor New York, NY 10003, insurance.vendor.cert@nyu.edu if Buyer is NYUGSOM or (3) to redfinsurance@nyulangone.org if the Purchase Order is issued by Buyer’s Real Estate Development & Facilities (RED+F), in any case, upon full execution of this Purchase Order and prior to commencing any services and/or delivery of products set forth hereunder. The policies shall provide that Buyer is not responsible for payment of premium for additional insured status. To the extent permitted by applicable law, such coverage shall: (A) be primary and non contributory to any other insurance carried by Buyer; (B) contain standard cross liability provisions as to separation of insureds; and (C) not require contribution before any excess or umbrella liability coverage will apply. All insurance policies specified herein will be issued by insurers with a minimum rating from A.M. Best of A , and a minimum financial rating of VII. If any required insurance is covered by a claims made policy, Seller will either maintain the policy for at least three (3) years following completion of performance of the Purchase Order or purchase tail coverage for the remaining period. Seller will endeavor to give Buyer at least thirty (30) days’ notice of cancellation or any material change to such insurance. If the Purchase Order is issued by Buyer’s Real Estate Development & Facilities (RED+F), each year Seller will be required to submit a renewal certificate evidencing the required insurance coverage. Seller will receive a request from a third party vendor on behalf of NYULH for a renewal certificate with instructions on how to submit the updated information. Where work is to be performed in a property not owned by the Buyer or one of the Buyer’s affiliates, the Seller shall obtain a copy of and fully comply with the property owner’s insurance requirements and name the property owner and others as specified by the property owner as additional insureds in connection with the performance of the Purchase Order. 13. Indemnification. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Seller will defend, indemnify, and hold harmless Buyer, its affiliated entities, trustees, directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns (each, an “Indemnified Party”) from and against any and all inter party and/or third party losses, claims, allegations, demands, suits, proceedings, investigations, prosecutions, actions, causes of action, liabilities, obligations, costs, expenses, assessments, settlements, judgments, interest and penalties (including legal expenses and reasonable attorneys’ fees), damages or injuries of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, damage, loss or destruction of real or personal property, personal or bodily injury or death to Buyer and all other persons) caused by, resulting from, arising out of, occurring in connection with, or relating to, directly or indirectly to, (a) any act 2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 4 Rev. 1 10 24 or omission of Seller, its employees, subcontractors, agents or representatives, in the performance of the Purchase Order, (b) the allegation that the Goods or Services provided by Seller or Buyer’s use thereof infringes or misappropriates the copyright, patent or other proprietary or intellectual property right of any third party, or that Seller has violated any applicable law or its agreements with any third party, (c) any breach or alleged breach of any provision of the Order or the Terms and Conditions of the Purchase Order, including a breach of any representations or warranties of Seller made herein, and (d) a claim, that the Goods or Services provided by Seller are defective or that Seller failed to comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Buyer will notify Seller in writing of a claim for indemnification and at Seller’s request shall give Seller control of the defense of such suit, insofar as Buyer has the authority to do so, and information and assistance for the same, all at Seller’s expense. In the event Seller fails to prosecute and conduct the defense diligently and in good faith, Buyer may take any and all actions at Seller’s expense that it deems necessary or desirable to preserve its rights with respect to such claim, including the right (but not the obligation) to engage counsel and defend, compromise or settle such claim, without waiving or otherwise limiting its rights under this section. Seller will consult with Buyer and at all times keep Buyer informed of all material matters relating to its indemnification of Buyer, including compromise or settlement of any claim. Buyer will be entitled to participate in any litigation and/or negotiation relating to any compromise or settlement with counsel of its own choice. Seller will not agree to any compromise or settlement of any third party claim, or permit a default or consent to entry of any judgment in respect of such claim, without Buyer’s prior written consent. For purposes of this section, “Seller” means each of Seller and any subcontractor engaged by Seller in connection with the Goods and Services, and their respective employees, officers, directors, agents, servants and representatives. References to “Buyer” in this section includes NYULH, NYUGSOM, NYU GLISOM, the System, and any other entity listed as the “Buyer” on the Purchase Order. The provisions of this section will survive termination of the Purchase Order. 14. Limitation of Liability: In no event will Buyer be liable to Seller or any third party, in contract, tort or otherwise, for any loss of profits or business, or any special, incidental, indirect, exemplary, punitive or consequential damages, arising from or as a result of the Order or any agreement between the parties relating to the products, services or deliverables Seller provides, even if Buyer has been advised of the possibility of such damages. 15. Compliance with Laws. Seller will comply with all applicable international, foreign, federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, those pertaining to privacy, sexual harassment (including any required employees sexual harassment training), and confidentiality and prohibition of discrimination based upon gender, gender identity, religion, race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry, military status, veteran’s status, sexual orientation, marital status, age, genetic information, disability or status as a victim of domestic violence. Furthermore, Seller represents and warrants that (i) Seller is not currently in violation of and will not violate U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws, including , but not limited to, the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), the economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of Treasury, the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (“ITAR”) administered by the U.S. Department of State, nor take any other action that would cause Buyer to be in violation of US export control and economic sanctions laws; nor take any other action that would cause Buyer to be in violation of U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws. Seller will obtain and maintain, and furnish to Buyer upon request, any and all permits, licenses, approvals, certificate and other documents required by Buyer or otherwise required by applicable law. Seller is not an entity organized under the laws of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, or Sudan, and is not an agency or representative of the government of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, or Sudan, and none of Seller’s officers, directors, managers, supervisory board members, partners or shareholders is an agent or representative of the government of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, or Sudan or a person who is ordinarily resident in Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria or Sudan. No Goods provided hereunder shall be of Cuban, Iranian, North Korean, Syrian, or Sudanese origin, and no Services will be provided by any person who is an agent or representative of the government of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Syria, or Sudan or ordinarily a resident of Cuba, North Korea, Iran, Syria or Sudan. Seller will not deposit funds it receives from Buyer into a Cuban, Iranian, North Korean, Syrian, or Sudanese bank and acknowledges that Buyer shall not be responsible for the loss of any funds deposited in violation of this provision. Neither Seller, Seller’s officers, directors, managers, supervisory board members, partners or shareholders, or any party providing any Goods and/or Services to Seller for provision to Buyer under this Purchase Order are identified on any list of restricted parties maintained by the United States government or other applicable government, including the Specially Designated Nationals List administered by the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”), the Denied Persons List, Unverified List or Entity List maintained by the U.S. Commerce Department’s Bureau of Industry and Security (“BIS”) or the List of Statutorily Debarred Parties maintained by the U.S. State Department’s Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, unless expressly authorized in writing by Buyer; (vii) all items (hardware, software, or technology) to be provided to Buyer under this Purchase Order are not controlled under the ITAR, listed in an Export Control Classification Number (“ECCN”) entry on the EAR, or controlled under a foreign equivalent law or regulation, or if the foregoing is not correct, Seller will provide in writing to Buyer the export classification of such item(s) (i.e., the proper ECCN if the item is controlled under the EAR, the proper United States Munitions List Category if the item is controlled under the ITAR, or the foreign equivalent) before this Purchase Order is deemed finalized and will notify Buyer in writing of any future changes to the export classification information of the item(s). Seller is subject to all U.S. Executive Orders and laws prohibiting transactions with, and the provision of resources, and support to, individuals and organizations associated with terrorism. Hiring individuals or contracting with organizations associated with 2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 5 Rev. 1 10 24 terrorism as identified by the federal government is strictly prohibited under the terms of the Purchase Order. Seller may not charge under this Order any Goods which have a source/origin from any restricted countries, as designated by the US State Department. If Buyer is NYULH, Buyer remains responsible for ensuring that any health care service provided in connection with the Purchase Order comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules and regulations, provided, however, that nothing in this provision shall relieve Seller from its duties and obligations hereunder. 16. Anti Bribery and Corruption. Seller, including any of its principals, owners, directors, officers, employees, consultants, affiliates, suppliers, agents, and subcontractors, in connection with any Goods and/or Services (a) will comply with all laws applicable to the parties under the Agreement relating to bribery and/or corruption (“Anti Corruption Laws”); (b) will not directly or indirectly offer, give, authorize, solicit, or accept the giving of money or anything else of value to or from any person, whether a government official or private party, to obtain an improper advantage for Buyer, Seller, or any third party, or secure the improper performance of that person’s function or misuse of that person’s position; (c) will not directly or indirectly offer, give or authorize the giving of money or anything else of value to any government official in his or her personal capacity, to facilitate or expedite government action or approvals; (d) will not do, or omit to do, any act that will cause Buyer to be in breach of the Anti Corruption Laws; (e) will not directly or indirectly offer or give to any Buyer’s employee or contractor any gift, gratuity, service, favor, or anything else of value to influence or reward that employee or contractor in connection with this Purchase Order; (f) will not accept, and will promptly report to Buyer, any request or demand for any undue financial or other advantage of any kind received by Seller in connection with the performance of this Purchase Order. Furthermore, Seller represents and warrants that it, and its principals, owners, directors, or officers: (i) have, with regard to any past action or omission related to this Purchase Order, acted consistently with each requirement set forth above, (ii) have not been convicted of any offense involving bribery, corruption, fraud, or dishonesty; (iii) have not been or are not the subject of any investigation, inquiry or enforcement proceedings by any governmental, administrative, or regulatory body regarding any offense or alleged offense under the Anti Corruption Laws; and (iv) have not been, or are not listed by any government agency as being, debarred, suspended, proposed for suspension or debarment, or otherwise ineligible for participation in government procurement programs or government contracts. Seller will promptly notify Buyer if it or any of its principals owners, directors, or officers become subject to (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above during the course of Buyer performance under this Purchase Order. 17. Buyer’s Policies and On Site Services. If Seller provides services at one of Buyer’s sites, Seller shall comply, and cause its employees, agents and subcontractors to comply, with all of Buyer’s policies that are brought to Seller's attention from time to time, including Buyer’s policies relating to health and safety, no smoking laws and those which can be found at: http://nyulangone.org/vendor supplier information/information for prospective existing suppliers. In addition, Seller must register with Vendormate to conduct business on the Buyer’s campuses at https://registersupplier.ghx.com/registration/ and cause its personnel and representatives comply with the health screening prerequisites set forth therein. Seller agrees to employ only competent and skilled personnel legally authorized to work in the United States, with satisfactory work records, who have been adequately trained in applicable safety procedures and provided with all necessary safety equipment to perform the Services and to compensate them in accordance with legally required wages and applicable overtime. Seller will immediately remove from all facilities and replace any personnel who are unsatisfactory to Buyer for any reason 18. No Exclusion from Healthcare Programs. Seller represents that neither Seller nor any parent or affiliate of Seller has been suspended, disqualified, debarred or otherwise excluded from or declared ineligible to bid or perform work for any governmental agency or otherwise prohibited from participating in Medicare, Medicaid or any other federal or state program (collectively, “Program”), and to the best of its knowledge, there are no pending civil anti trust or criminal investigations or pending or threatened debarments or exclusions of Seller from any Program. Seller covenants to notify Buyer as soon as practicable if Seller is suspended, disqualified, debarred, excluded or declared ineligible from participation in a Program, and to refrain from employing or contracting for purposes of providing goods or services to Buyer with any individual or entity known by Seller to be sanctioned, suspended, disqualified, debarred, excluded or declared ineligible from participation in any Program. Seller shall defend, indemnify and hold Buyer harmless from any loss, cost, fine, penalty or expense incurred by Buyer as a result of or arising from a breach of this Section. 19. Discount and Price Reduction Reporting Obligations. To the extent the Order includes any discount or reduction in price: (a) Seller shall fully and accurately report such discount or reduction in price to Buyer on its invoice; provided, however, that where the value of the discount or reduction in price is not known at the time of sale, Seller shall report the existence of a discount program on its invoice and, when the value of the discount becomes known, provide Buyer with documentation of the calculation of the discount, including a description of the Goods and Services to which the discount is applied; and (b) Buyer will fully and accurately report the discount on the appropriate cost reports. This provision is intended to implement the requirements of 42 CFR §1001.952(h), as amended from time to time. 20. Minority and Women Owned Business Enterprises. Seller shall comply with all policies and programs Buyer may institute from time to time with respect to small businesses and certified minority and women owned businesses (MWBEs), including taking affirmative steps to encourage, promote and utilize MWBEs whenever possible. Buyer, in its discretion, may make an award and/or negotiate another agreement with a MWBE in addition to any sole or multi source award. 2024 NYU PO TCs.docx Page 6 Rev. 1 10 24 21. Product Recall Notification. If there is a product recall affecting any Goods or Seller believes it may be necessary to conduct a recall or other similar action with respect to the Goods (a “Recall”), Seller shall promptly send a written notification to ECRI by filling out the form at https://www.ecri.org/pages/ReportADeviceProblem.aspx. In addition, Seller shall: (a) consult with Buyer of how best to: (i) proceed, including without limitation, provide instructions for disposal and replacement of the affected Good(s), and (ii) comply with any additional requirements set forth by the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (“FDA”); (b) provide every assistance possible to retrieve/locate any used and or un used affected Recall Goods and if available, provide recommended substitution or replacement goods to Buyer at no additional charge; and (c) reimburse Buyer for its reasonable and actual costs incurred in connection with any action taken in response to a Recall, as long as its actions are consistent with the recommendations issued by Seller and the FDA as part of the Recall. 22. Buyer Tax Exempt. No New York sales and use tax or federal excise tax shall be included in any invoice. The Goods and Servicers covered by the Purchase Order are exempt from such taxes. Seller will not charge Buyer for any taxes in connection with the Purchase Order to the extent permitted by law. Buyer will supply its tax exempt number and/or a copy of its exemption certificate(s) to Seller upon request from Seller. 23. Governing Law. The laws of the State of New York govern all matters arising under or relating to the Purchase Order without regard to principles of conflicts of law or choice of law that would cause the laws of any other jurisdiction to be applied. The parties consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of New York or the federal district court sitting in New York City to resolve any controversy or claim arising out of or relating to the Purchase Order, and waive the right to a trial by jury. 24. Assignment; Subcontractors. Neither the Purchase Order nor any interest under it, except the claims for monies due or to become due under the Purchase Order, shall be assigned by Seller without Buyer’s express prior written consent. Any assignment without such consent will be null and void. Buyer reserves the right to make direct settlements and/or adjustments in price(s) with Seller, notwithstanding any assignment of claims for monies due or to become due hereunder. Seller hereby assigns to Buyer any and all of Seller’s state and federal antitrust claims and causes of action that relate to the Goods or Services specified in the Purchase Order. In the event Seller uses lower tier subcontractors for any part of the Purchase Order, Seller will remain primarily responsible and Seller shall flow down all applicable clauses of this Purchase Order to such lower tier subcontractors. 25. United States Government Funding. If the Order involves the use of funds from a Federal government grant, contract, or subcontract, Seller is required to comply with all applicable Federal funding requirements as