understand your symptoms, review your detailed medical history, and examine your skin for signs of contact dermatitis. Patch Testing for Allergic Contact Dermatitis If our dermatologists suspect that allergic contact dermatitis is causing a rash, a patch test is the most effective diagnostic tool. NYU Langone dermatologists have been leading experts in the technique of patch testing since the 1930s, when the patch test was first brought to the United States. This allergy test is uniquely designed to identify the cause of contact dermatitis without the use of needles. The patch testing process typically occurs over three to seven days, and requires at least three visits with your dermatologist. In the patch test, a number of thin metal or flexible plastic chambers that contain a small amount of an allergen are applied to the back. The patch tests are removed after two days, at which point the skin is examined for evidence of irritation. You return to your doctor’s office after a day or more for a final reading, during which our doctors examine the skin for signs of allergic reactions. The allergens used in the test are found in everyday products as well as more unusual sources, and help distinguish which products or other exposures may be causing the rash. Once the patch testing process has concluded, patients are provided with a list of products to use that do not contain the chemicals that caused the reaction. Our Contact Dermatitis Team Our doctors are experts in the diagnosis and management of contact dermatitis and are skilled in the technique of patch testing for allergic contact dermatitis. David E. Cohen, MD, MPH Dermatology, Skin Allergy Dermatology Alexandra Flamm, MD Dermatology, Dermatopathology Theodora K. Karagounis, MD Emily C. Milam, MD We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. To make an appointment, please call 212-263-0800 Pulmonary Intervention Surgery for Airway Conditions At NYU Langone’s Tracheal and Bronchial Disorders Treatment Program, our team of specialists manages conditions of the trachea, commonly known as the windpipe, and the bronchi, which are the two major airways leading from the trachea to the lungs. Our doctors are renowned experts in the use of minimally invasive to manage tracheobronchomalacia (TBM), in which the trachea and bronchi soften and collapse during breathing. Ours is one of the few programs in the Northeast to focus on treatment of conditions that affect the airway, using both surgical and nonsurgical minimally invasive approaches. These are some of the other conditions of the airway we commonly treat: tracheal stenosis, a narrowing of the trachea that typically occurs because of scarring after intubation tracheoesophageal fistula, or an abnormal opening between the trachea and the esophagus, the long, hollow tube that extends from the throat to the stomach trachea or bronchial tumors, both noncancerous and cancerous, including slow-growing carcinoid tumors Our tracheal experts include interventional pulmonologists, pathologists, thoracic surgeons, head and neck surgeons, head and neck reconstructive surgeons, and pulmonary rehabilitation specialists. Doctors from , including radiologists, radiation oncologists, and medical oncologists, may also be part of the care team. Together, we create personalized care plans to manage your airway health. Care may include interventional pulmonology procedures minimally invasive or open surgery , chemotherapy or immunotherapy, radiation therapy, and Our doctors diagnose and manage conditions of the trachea and bronchi Jamie L. Bessich Benjamin Cooper Andrew J. DeMaio Amie J. Kent Vivek Murthy Daniel H. Sterman Our thoracic surgeons may be part of your treatment team. NYU Langone medical oncologists or radiation oncologists at Perlmutter Cancer Center may help manage airway tumors. Pulmonary rehabilitation may be part of your recovery from surgery or other treatments. 212-263-7951 At NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program, we provide diagnosis and comprehensive care for people who have . This rare and complex condition causes immune cells to clump together into masses called granulomas that can prevent an organ from functioning properly. There are many types of sarcoidosis , which are classified by the organs or tissues involved. Most often, sarcoidosis affects the lungs, lymph nodes, or skin, but it can occur anywhere in the body. Sarcoidosis may require treatment from several different specialists. We have been named a Sarocoidosis Center for Excellence by the World Association for Sarcoidosis and Other Granulomatous Disorders (WASOG) for our leadership, best practices, research, and training for sarcoidosis. One Team, Coordinated Care Our experts—pulmonologists, cardiologists, dermatologists, nephrologists, neurologists, ophthalmologists, and rheumatologists—work closely together to diagnose sarcoidosis and to create a comprehensive treatment plan for you. Our team coordinates your care across specialties to make your experience with us as seamless as possible. Advanced Diagnostics NYU Langone doctors have access to the most-advanced tools to diagnose sarcoidosis in any organ. These include advanced imaging using MRI and PET; flexible bronchoscopy; endobronchial, transbronchial, and endomyocardial biopsy; bronchoalveolar lavage; and endobronchial ultrasound–guided transbronchial needle aspiration. Such technologies enable doctors to accurately diagnose sarcoidosis and rule out other conditions with similar symptoms. Experts in Sarcoidosis Care Our comprehensive approach allows us to quickly identify and address symptoms and other complications related to sarcoidosis. For example, people with sarcoidosis have an increased risk of developing . Our nephrologists specialize in preventing and treating the sarcoidosis-related calcium imbalances that cause these stones to form. Our neurologists are experienced in managing complications of the nervous system associated with sarcoidosis, including optic neuritis, myelitis, and cranial neuropathies. Our dermatologists provide expert . We work closely with the entire team of doctors to diagnose sarcoidosis when it affects the skin and other organs, and treat skin-related symptoms. Our cardiologists and pulmonologists provide critical care for people who have advanced cardiac or pulmonary sarcoidosis. We also provide advanced therapies for pulmonary hypertension due to sarcoidosis. For those who are considering a heart or lung transplant or a left ventricular assist device (LVAD), we offer a smooth transition of care to Our multidisciplinary specialists meet regularly to discuss each patient’s diagnosis and work together to design a treatment plan that helps achieve the best outcome. When you are seen by an NYU Langone sarcoidosis specialist, you have access to an entire team of experts. They ensure that you receive the best and most-advanced care, including access to novel treatments through our ongoing research and Doctors at NYU Langone participate in an international registry and conduct to discover and evaluate new treatments for sarcoidosis. You and your doctor may discuss whether participating in a clinical trial is appropriate for you. A cardiologist, pulmonologist, or your personal physician may refer you to the Sarcoidosis Program, or you may refer yourself. You can also view our list of physicians and contact an individual provider directly to make an appointment. Our specialists include experts in pulmonology, cardiology, dermatology, neurology, nephrology, ophthalmology, radiology, and rheumatology. Doreen J. Addrizzo-Harris Program Co-Director, Pulmonology Program Co-Director, Cardiology Avrom S. Caplan Program Co-Director, Dermatology Rany Condos Alisa N. Femia Jeffrey Michael Yasha S. Modi Uveitis Specialist Nadia Pletukhina NYU Langone Dermatologic Associates Our experts treat all types of skin conditions, including skin sarcoidosis. As one of the highest-volume heart rhythm centers in the country, we offer advanced treatment for all types of heart rhythm disorders. We offer sophisticated technology to extend and improve the lives of people who have advanced heart failure. Skin and Cancer Unit We provide expert diagnostic and treatment services for all types of skin diseases, including skin sarcoidosis. Our experts perform heart, kidney, liver, lung, and pancreas transplants. Experts from NYU Langone’s Sleep Disorders Program can help with the diagnosis and treatment of severe or prolonged difficulties related to sleep. Our staff is experienced in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Our program includes a five-bed sleep unit outfitted with state-of-the-art recording equipment for sleep studies. We can also provide limited in-home or in-hospital monitoring to screen and follow up on sleep disorders. We are also committed to training doctors for careers in sleep medicine through our Sleep Medicine Fellowship Program Below are some of the most common sleep issues that we can help you with: excessive daytime sleepiness, which is usually a consequence of too little or very disrupted sleep insomnia, which is characterized by difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep, or both kicking or punching during sleep low oxygen during sleep narcolepsy, a lifelong disorder of the central nervous system that makes it difficult or impossible for a person to maintain any state or stage of sleep or wakefulness , which is often described as brief cessations of breathing throughout sleep poor sleep habits preoperative sleep apnea screening restless legs syndrome (RLS), which is best described as “creepy crawly” sensations in your legs, but can also occur in the arms shift work sleep problems shortness of breath during sleep We offer treatments including medications; nasal CPAP, or continuous positive airway pressure mask that helps manage the symptoms of sleep apnea; biofeedback and relaxation therapy to aid sleep; and sleep restriction strategies designed to condense sleep into sequential nighttime hours. Our experts specialize in the treatment and research of all types of sleep disorders. Nishay Chitkara Ari Klapholz Mandana Mahmoudi MD, PhD, MPH Sleep Medicine Doctor Rodolfo Miranda AR Alcibiades J. Rodriguez Epilepsy Doctor Erich P. Voigt Otolaryngologist Related Centers Comprehensive Epilepsy Center—Sleep Center Our facility has six patient testing rooms and offers the latest technology for diagnosing sleep disorders in children and adults. NYU Langone Medical Associates—Chelsea At our in-house sleep lab, our sleep medicine specialists diagnose and treat a variety of sleep disorders. NYU Langone Pulmonary Critical Care and Internal Medicine Associates Our sleep medicine experts diagnose and treat sleep disorders in adults. Our team of doctors can address a full range of issues including sleep disorders. We have doctors in Manhattan, Brooklyn, the Bronx, and on Long Island. COVID-19 Clinical Trials Our experts are advancing knowledge about all facets of COVID-19 through research. View Current Clinical Trials Experts at NYU Langone’s Post-COVID Care Program provide comprehensive evaluation and treatment for people experiencing long-term symptoms or other lasting health impacts after COVID-19 infection. Many people recover completely from the disease. But some people have persistent COVID-19 symptoms or develop new health problems in the weeks or months after contracting the virus. This can happen even if they had only mild symptoms initially or showed no signs of infection. This condition is sometimes referred to as “long COVID” or “long-haul COVID.” In the medical community it is known as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, or PASC. Some of the common long-term symptoms people experience after COVID-19 include the following: worsened symptoms after physical or mental activities shortness of breath or difficulty breathing memory or concentration problems chest pains fast or pounding heartbeat , or both dizziness and lightheadedness sleep disturbances loss of smell or taste fever COVID-19 is an infection that can affect different areas of the body, including the lungs, heart, kidneys, brain, and muscles. Because of this, some people may develop other health conditions or serious complications, such as , heart problems, kidney problems, , cognitive and memory issues, or weakness that limits physical activity. Leading Treatment for COVID-19 Because COVID-19 is a new disease, many healthcare providers may not have experience with these persistent or new health conditions as they relate to COVID-19. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This has allowed us to collect significant volumes of data quickly. This experience, along with our focus on these long-term symptoms, has given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance of full recovery. Our Post-COVID Care Program specialists, including primary care doctors, pulmonologists, cardiologists, neurologists, mental health professionals, and physiatrists—doctors who specialize in rehabilitation medicine—collaborate to create a personalized treatment plan for you. We use the most sophisticated diagnostic tools and treatments, including medical and lifestyle options. Our goal is to provide comprehensive and coordinated care that supports your recovery and overall health and wellbeing. At NYU Langone, our experts have been on the front lines of the pandemic, from caring for the first patients to testing COVID-19 vaccines and advising health agencies. Our doctors have gained valuable experience and insights that guide the care we provide. Evaluation for the Post-COVID Care Program We evaluate and treat people ages 18 and older who are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms or related health problems persisting at least 4 weeks after the initial infection. We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. Experts in our Post-COVID Care Program evaluate and treat people who meet the following guidelines: are age 18 years or older still have symptoms from a suspected or diagnosed case of COVID-19 at least four weeks after symptom onset We do not require proof of a COVID-19 diagnosis to make an appointment with our program. We recommend all new patients schedule a consultation by calling 212-263-6115. At this first appointment, our nurse practitioner takes your health history and discusses your symptoms with you. Based on this information, we provide you with referrals to the appropriate post-COVID care specialists, who complete a full evaluation to determine the severity and scope of your symptoms and create a treatment plan that aids your recovery. If you have received a post-COVID specialty referral or know which specialist or specific doctor you wish to see, you may For questions about our program, call us at 212-263-6115 If you currently have symptoms of COVID-19 or a new positive test for COVID-19, schedule an appointment with an NYU Langone doctor through our service. Learn more about the COVID-19 vaccine and how to schedule an appointment for a vaccination. If you have post-vaccination concerns, contact your Participate in COVID-19 Research NYU Langone experts have led the field in advancing our understanding of COVID-19 and post-COVID conditions. When you receive care through the Post-COVID Care Program, you may participate in our COVID-19 and enroll in observational research. All of our research efforts aim to improve care and outcomes for people who have had COVID-19. We are actively enrolling adult patients who have long-COVID symptoms in a National Institutes of Health (NIH)–funded Post-COVID Registry . Participants in this study will be asked to provide blood and stool samples at different timepoints, complete health-related questionnaires, and allow the research team to review their COVID-19 history. We are also looking for patients with a history of COVID-19 but no long-COVID symptoms to join our healthy control group. Healthy control group participants will be asked to provide one blood and stool sample and complete one health-related questionnaire. For more information, please contact the research team at: PASCRegistry@NYULangone.org Support for Our Patients with Long COVID Post-COVID Care Program psychologists have developed the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness Group. The program is designed to provide participants with evidence-based skills to manage symptoms and offer a supportive space to share and process experiences with long COVID and the COVID-19 pandemic. This virtual program consists of 12 weekly 60-minute sessions guided by a psychologist from our team. Each session focuses on a specific topic to allow optimal learning of concepts and skills. Topics include the following: overview of the biology of long COVID strategies for managing sleep and fatigue techniques for navigating brain fog and attention issues coping mechanisms for anxiety and grief, and other mental health topics To learn more about the Beyond Long COVID: Skill-Building and Wellness group, call us at 212-263-6115. Our experts specialize in caring for people experiencing long-term effects of COVID-19. Neil A. Busis Jeffrey S. Fine Suzette A. Garofano Paul L. Glassman Eva Kosta Joann Kwah Katherine Leiber Anli A. Liu Kristen Lo Sicco Hair Loss Dermatologist William Lu PsyD Amrita Mukhopadhyay John S. Munger Elena Nascimbeni Ferran Kinjan Parikh Vinh P. Pham Susan M. Polizzi View All 35 Doctors & 35 Gene Found to Protect Some Men from Severe COVID-19 & Death One Patient, 165 Care Providers & Endless Gratitude A PET/CT scan is a combination of two noninvasive imaging tests: positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT). At NYU Langone , our expert radiologists review and interpret PET/CT scans to diagnose illnesses, evaluate a patient’s response to treatment, and check for the recurrence of several medical conditions, including cancer. When you have a PET/CT scan, radiolabeled glucose, a form of glucose labeled with radioactive material, is injected intravenously. Much like a car uses gas to run, the cells of the body need glucose to work effectively. The radiolabeled glucose resembles glucose enough to be taken up by cells, but not enough to be used by them. As a result, cells that need more “gas” accumulate more of the radiolabeled glucose. The PET/CT scanner detects where there is a concentration of radiolabeled glucose in the body, and thus where disease may be. For certain people, contrast materials may be given orally or intravenously during the test as well. Preparing for a PET/CT Scan You must fast for six hours before a PET/CT scan, and you are only able to drink plain water. Even ingesting a small amount of sugar can make the results of the test inaccurate. If you have type 1 or type 2 diabetes, you are given specific instructions from our nurses after you schedule your appointment. In order to have a PET/CT scan with contrast, you must have a blood test to check your creatinine levels within six weeks of your scan. Please bring any previous imaging studies and reports with you if they were performed at another institution. You also need your identification card, insurance card, scan prescription, and related forms. During a PET/CT Scan When you arrive for your appointment, you need to change into a gown if you are wearing any clothing with metal in it. A locker is provided for your clothes and personal items. Please advise a nurse or technologist if there is a chance you may be pregnant. Before the scan, a nurse interviews you to get a detailed medical history, and places an intravenous (IV) line. If oral contrast is prescribed, this is when you drink the first portion. You are escorted into a private room, where you receive an injection of radiolabeled glucose and then rest quietly for approximately 45 to 60 minutes. A few minutes before you go onto the scanner, you drink the second portion of your oral contrast and use the restroom. If IV contrast is used during the CT portion of the study, it is injected while you are on the scanner. Scan lasts approximately 20 to 30 minutes. During the scan, you are visible to and can communicate with the technologist, who is present in the adjacent control room at all times. After a PET/CT Scan At the end of the scan, you are escorted back to the patient area and your IV is removed. You can change and have a snack. If necessary, additional instructions are given to you by the nurses. The results of the scan are interpreted by our nuclear medicine physicians. The report is sent immediately to your referring physician, who contacts you with the results. AI Reconstructs Unique Speech from Brain Signals: How It Works & Where It Could Lead For patients who have lost their ability to speak—due to a stroke, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or other conditions that disconnect the brain’s speech signaling pathways—artificial intelligence and brain–computer interface systems have opened the door to neural speech prostheses. However, few such systems aim to mimic an individual’s unique voice, so that most yield generic speech that can sound robotic. Aided by machine learning algorithms, a research group at NYU Langone Health has developed a unique speech decoder and synthesizer system that produces natural-sounding speech closely matching individuals’ voices. The team’s latest study—one of the largest in its field— tested the approach in 48 patients , showing how the technique can accurately re-create a broad range of speech. Here’s more information about how the system works and how it could lead to far more individualized neural speech prostheses. How does the new vocal reconstruction system work? Speech can be mapped and synthesized from neural electrocorticography (ECoG) signals to a time–frequency representation of speech, or a spectrogram, says neuroscientist Adeen Flinker, PhD . He and colleagues first mapped out a set of 18 speech parameters that represent how the human voice changes in frequency, pitch, and other characteristics over time. A deep neural network can learn and re-create that complex mapping. To capture an individual’s unique speech, the researchers trained a model on a prerecording of each patient’s voice. A technique called an autoencoder was used to constrain the 18 parameters representing that voice. Machine learning equations then helped combine the parameters into a more accurate re-creation of the person’s speech patterns. A comparison of original audio recordings and accompanying spectrograms, collected as individuals speak various words, with the audio and spectrograms generated by the novel speech decoder. Source: NYU Langone Health How do researchers gather the necessary data to decode speech? Researchers have learned to decode speech from the brain signals of patients undergoing evaluation for epilepsy surgery. Electrodes implanted for presurgical evaluation also provide the necessary ECoG recordings for vocal reconstruction. Data from electroencephalography (EEG) electrodes that monitor activity from outside the skull are not sufficient, because the neural signals are distorted after traveling through bone and other tissue. What makes this approach unique? “Instead of generating a generic voice or robotic voice, we first learn the patient’s voice in a machine learning manner,” Dr. Flinker says. That approach yields a more realistic reproduction of the patient’s speech. Additionally, unlike similar studies, which have included only a handful of patients, the team’s study represents the largest cohort to date in which a neural speech decoder for unique speech has been applied, proving that the approach is both reproducible and scalable. “We really wanted to push the envelope and see to what degree we can scale this up,” he says. If the approach pans out, it could lead to clinical trials of brain–computer interface technologies that reproduce an individual’s own voice. In addition, the researchers have shared an open-source neuro-decoding pipeline to bolster collaboration and enable replication of the group’s results. What other new information did the study reveal about speech signaling? Language signals are typically associated with the brain’s left hemisphere, but the researchers used available data from the right hemisphere of 16 patients to produce “robust decoding” for them as well, Dr. Flinker says. “That’s a very exciting finding that hasn’t been shown before, especially not on this scale.” If neural signals from the right hemisphere prove sufficient for decoding speech, he says, it could open up the prosthetic technology to patients with aphasia due to left-hemisphere damage. “The fact that we can decode from the right hemisphere is the first line of evidence that we can perhaps restore and synthesize speech based on intact right hemisphere signals and not the damaged left hemisphere,” Dr. Flinker says. What’s next for this work? The next immediate step, Dr. Flinker says, is to develop approaches that do not require a prerecording of a patient’s voice, while also expanding the system’s vocabulary to include more words and sentences. The team will then need to assess the efficacy of the technology on clinical trial participants with implanted electrodes who are unable to speak. Another significant challenge lies in designing a clinical trial for patients with aphasia to determine how effectively the technology functions when the left hemisphere is compromised. Adeen Flinker, PhD, is an associate professor of neurology. His research focuses on speech, electrocorticography, and signal processing. Niche Role for Temporary VADs in Bypass Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD The ventricular assist device (VAD), initially used as a rescue therapy for adults with cardiogenic shock, is now proving to be useful as an adjunct to coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in a subset of patients with advanced heart failure. Cardiothoracic surgeon , pioneered an innovative technique that utilizes the device in patients with advanced-stage heart failure currently considered ineligible for traditional bypass surgery. The method uses a temporary VAD to aid recovery and improve outcomes following CABG, lowering the risk of bypass surgery for patients who, otherwise, have limited treatment options aside from transplant. “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure.” “This procedure has the potential to transform the lives of patients with advanced heart failure by delaying the need for a heart transplant or by offering a path to recovery with bypass surgery,” says Dr. Zias. VAD for Temporary Support In general, patients with heart failure and an ejection fraction at or below 35 percent are at high risk for death or complications with bypass surgery, Dr. Zias says. Research suggests that reduced ejection fraction more than doubles the risk of early mortality after CABG. This paradigm has started to shift, however, with the availability of temporary VADs, he notes. While early versions of these devices were bulky and cumbersome to remove, modern versions can be taken out directly at the bedside with no additional anesthesia or surgery. After coronary bypass surgery, the device is placed centrally into the aorta to temporarily assume the pumping function of the heart, allowing it to rest, Dr. Zias explains. Within a matter of days, the device is taken out, and patients tend to recover quickly thereafter. A Viable Option for Complex Cases Recently, Dr. Zias and the team had a case that was uniquely complex involving a 62-year-old male patient who presented with an acute pulmonary embolism. He also had heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction of 30 percent, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. “After treating the pulmonary embolism, we knew he would require CABG surgery,” Dr. Zias says. “Given his reduced ejection fraction and comorbidities, the surgical risk was higher than average. We recommended placement of a temporary VAD.” After completing the bypass surgery, Dr. Zias inserted the temporary VAD without any complications. Within a day after the procedure, the patient was strong enough to stand and walk. At 10 days postop, the device was removed during a bedside procedure, and the patient returned home shortly after. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country.” “The device alleviates the burden on the heart as it heals, while simultaneously allowing a patient to stand and move around sooner. Together, that makes a huge difference in their overall recovery,” Dr. Zias explains. Being Proactive, Not Reactive When considering CABG in the setting of advanced heart failure, Dr. Zias recommends that patients be referred as early as possible to ensure optimal short-term and long-term outcomes, emphasizing that the cardiac surgeons at NYU Langone are uniquely positioned to perform this procedure. “Having done over 100 of these procedures, we have conducted more than any other institution across the country,” Dr. Zias says. “Due to our success, the device manufacturer is now launching a trial in this cohort of patients.” Cardiac Surgery, Thoracic Surgery Elias A. Zias, MD, is a clinical professor of cardiothoracic surgery and director of the Coronary Artery Bypass Program. He also serves as director of quality assurance for adult cardiac surgery at Tisch Hospital and Kimmel Pavilion. Novel Strategy Stabilizes Newborn’s Cardiomyopathy Prior to Heart Transplant Insights from First Heart Xenotransplantations in Recent Decedents Deane E. Smith, MD; Syed T. Hussain, MD; and Nader Moazami, MD Advances in genetic engineering and immunosuppression have raised hopes that genetically modified pigs might help solve the chronic shortage of transplant organs for human patients. Although xenotransplantation of hearts from such animals has shown encouraging results in nonhuman primates, it has been attempted only twice in a living person—in January 2022 and September 2023, when patients at the University of Maryland received pig hearts under the FDA’s “compassionate use” provision. The first patient survived for 60 days before the organ failed; the second patient was still being monitored at the time of publication. NYU Langone Health researchers are pioneering in this emerging field of innovation by taking a different approach: being the first to transplant gene-edited pig hearts into recently deceased humans. Led by , chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support, they recently reported findings in a study published in Nature Medicine . The transplant recipients were a man and a woman, both of whom had consented to full-body donation. Heart function was monitored for three days. Here, Dr. Moazami discusses the study’s methodology and findings, and its implications for the future of cardiac xenotransplantation. Pioneering the Decedent Model Dr. Moazami, why did you decide to use decedent recipients in this study? Dr. Moazami: The big question in xenotransplantation is whether the lessons we’ve learned from pig-to-primate transplants can be applied to humans. Our goal was to investigate that question without jeopardizing a recipient’s life. My colleague Dr. Robert Montgomery , has pioneered the decedent model in pig-to-human kidney xenotransplantation , with great success. We thought it would be useful to take a similar approach with the heart. “We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now.” Based on discussions with Dr. Montgomery, we set out to determine three things: Is the pig heart robust enough to maintain blood flow in the human? What happens to this heart immunologically? And are any viruses transmitted from the pig to the human? With a deceased recipient, we could investigate those issues in much more detail than with a living patient—for example, by doing frequent biopsies and multiple daily blood draws. Navigating Complex Logistics How did you carry out the experiments? Several months of planning were required. We needed to work out what kind of consent we were going to use and how we would approach the families. We needed to have an OR available, which would then become an ICU, for a three-day period. We needed to train our surgical team in the unique challenges of xenotransplantation. We had to rehearse the procurement protocol, which included transporting the donor heart from a special pig-breeding facility in Virginia. We used animals grown under sterile conditions with 10 genetic modifications—4 genes knocked out to eliminate immunogenic sugars and keep the heart from growing too large, and 6 human genes inserted to improve immunocompatibility. We also used an extremely sensitive screen for porcine viruses to reduce the risk that latent viruses might be present in the donor heart. Once appropriate recipients became available—decedents with organs that were ineligible for donation but whose physiology could withstand the rigors of transplant surgery—we performed the implantations just as we would with a human heart. Afterward, both recipients were monitored 24 hours a day by a team of intensivist physicians and nurses, as well as by the research team. Encouraging—and Instructive—Results Tell us about the results. Were there any surprises? Overall, the results were very positive. There was no sign of rejection or inflammation. The hearts kept pumping without the need for mechanical support. And we detected no porcine viruses in the hearts or in the recipients. However, there were differences in outcome between the two xenotransplants. In the first case, there was a significant size mismatch between the donor heart and the recipient, who had previously had cardiomyopathy. The recipient needed high doses of vasopressors and inotropes, and, by the third day, we saw a deterioration of cardiac output. In the second case, where the size match was good, none of those problems occurred. “For pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy.” One takeaway is that for pig-to-human cardiac transplants to become clinically feasible, we’ll need a better way to match a potential donor pig with a prospective recipient’s anatomy. Our team has launched another study in which we’re monitoring the growth of the heart at different stages of the animal’s lifetime to get a better understanding of the relationship between heart size and body weight. What else does this study tell us about the future of cardiac xenotransplantation? A lot of work needs to be done before we can determine whether this approach can solve the organ shortage. But the time has come for us to do that work. We’ve never been as close to making xenotransplantation a reality as we are now. Research support and funding for this study was provided by Lung Biotechnology, a wholly owned subsidiary of the United Therapeutics Corporation. Cardiac Surgery, Transplant Surgery Nader Moazami, MD, is a professor of cardiothoracic surgery and chief of the Division of Heart and Lung Transplant and Mechanical Circulatory Support. His research interests center on improving surgical procedures, such as transplants and circulatory support pumps, for patients with end-stage heart failure. Sequential Triple Therapy Boosts Outcomes in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension Dual combination therapies are the standard of care for low- and intermediate-risk pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). However, the long-term impact of add-on sequential triple combination therapy for patients with intermediate- or high-risk disease has remained largely unknown. In a retrospective analysis of 55 patients with PAH on dual combination therapy but not at therapeutic goal, a team of researchers from NYU Langone Health found that the sequential addition of a third therapeutic agent to the regimen yielded significant improvements in function, risk status, and survival. The study was recently reported in Therapeutic Advances in Respiratory Disease “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population.” “We confirmed a lasting clinical and survival benefit with add-on sequential therapy in a racially diverse population,” says lead author , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Pulmonary Hypertension Program Assessing Need for Escalating Therapy According to Dr. Sulica, current guidelines recommend adding a third drug sequentially in patients with intermediate-low risk PAH at follow-up. For intermediate-high or high-risk disease, parenteral prostacyclin or referrals for a transplant are recommended options. “Some studies have included patients on dual combination therapy who received a sequential third investigational drug,” Dr. Sulica says. However, until now, no existing study had explored the long-term effects of sequential triple combination therapy in intermediate- or high-risk disease at follow-up, she explains. Moreover, Dr. Sulica emphasizes the need to identify independent predictors of risk reduction with triple-therapy regimens. “While most trials have not included risk reduction as an end point, it could be a useful target to shift the paradigm to a goal-oriented approach,” Dr. Sulica says. Risk Reduction with Triple Therapy For the study, the researchers followed patients with PAH seen at the Pulmonary Hypertension Center from January 2017 to July 2021. Participants were maintained on a stable dual-therapy combination regimen, then followed up after starting a third add-on drug sequentially. Of the 102 patients who started on the triple regimen, 55 were included in the final analysis. About a third of them were classified as high risk. After 68 weeks of follow-up, the researchers saw a significant improvement in functional, hemodynamic, and