Both fairs providedhandouts and discussion offered and occultblood tests and cardiac risk profiles. Thesecond health fair also offered immunizationsand appointments for low cost mammographyscreening. Although attendance at the firsthealth fair was lower than hoped, feedbackindicated participants' satisfaction. Thecommunity health nurse and the lay healthworkers based their evaluation of the secondfair on attendance, community involvement,and degree of satisfaction reported byparticipants. The fair exceeded expectations ofattendance and level of communityinvolvement. Informal feedback indicatedsatisfaction with the services provided.Researchers could not evaluate the immediateeffect of the fair on community health andempowerment. 26 references. (HE9500589)11The Community Health Advisor/Worker016Community Facilitator ImplementationManual.Form: Manual.Corporate Author:University of SouthernMississippi, Center for Community Health.Source:Hattiesburg, MS, University ofSouthern Mississippi, Center for CommunityHealth, Community Health Advisor Network,56 p., 1996.Abstract: The Community FacilitatorImplementation Manual provides step by stepinstructions on how to implement the FreedomFrom Hunger/Community Health AdvisorNetwork (CHAN), located in Hattiesburg,Mississippi. The manual includes informationabout (1) entering a community and buildingbroad based support for an initiative, (2)identifying community members who aredesignated by their peers as natural helpers, (3)recruiting natural helpers to participate in acommunity development project, (4) buildingconsensus about community problems that needto be addressed, (5) training volunteers to betteraddress community problems, (6) supportingvolunteer efforts, and (7) building linkagesbetween volunteers and service providingagencies in the community. The manualcontains eight chapters. (HE9700746)017Community Health Advisor Program:Training Curriculum.Form: Teaching guide.Corporate Author:University of SouthernMississippi, Center for Community Health.Source:Hattiesburg, MS, University ofSouthern Mississippi, Center for CommunityHealth, Community Health Advisor Network,238 p., n.d.Abstract:This curriculum is designed to trainmembers of the community to be CommunityHealth Advisors who will work to improveindividual and community health and nutritionby linking neighbors, friends, and families tolocal service providers. The training programhas 10 sessions; sessions 2 through 9 each havetwo parts, one on health and nutrition and oneon community leadership skills. The health andnutrition topics address health promotion,chronic disease, good nutrition, maternal health,child health, communicable disease, mentalhealth and substance abuse, and communityhealth and safety services.Specific trainingprocedures, participant worksheets, andevaluation activities are included for the sessionon health promotion and for all leadership skillssessions. Session1 helps participants exploretheir community's unique situation, thechallenges facing the community, and possiblesolutions.Session 2 discusses the role of thecommunity health advisor in giving advice,providing assistance, and mobilizing others toaction. Sessions 3 and 4 describe the basicdiscussion method, a tool for effectiveconversation with individuals and groups.Sessions 5, 6, and 7 teach participants how tocreate and lead workshops that will help diversecommunity groups identify problems andgenerate solutions. Session 8 addresses skillsfor facilitating broad community participation.Sessions 9 and 10 teach participants how to12Applications and Methodsidentify priorities for action and develop plansto implement those priorities. (HE9700747)018Community Health Advocacy: PrimaryHealth Care Nurse Advocate Teams inUrban Communities.Form: Book chapter.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Swider, S.M.;Bless, C; Murphy, D.; Montgomery, A.; Norr,K.; Irvin, Y.; Gantes, M.; Fisher, M.Source:In:Perspectives in Nursing 1989 1991. National League for Nursing. New York,NY, National League for Nursing, pp. 117 131,1990.Abstract: This chapter describes theCommunity Health Advocacy Project, a team ofcommunity health advocates and nurses thatcollaborates in defining, developing, andimplementing strategies responsive to theconcerns and essential health needs ofcommunity residents. The project has beenimplemented in two low income communitiesin Chicago, Illinois, one with primarily AfricanAmerican residents and the other with primarilyHispanic residents. Women from eachcommunity were trained as health advocates,which prepared them to work with public healthnurses in their communities. During the firstyear of the project, the nurse advocate teamsidentified health problems in their community,talked with community residents about healthconcerns, and assessed the available health andsocial services. As the nurse advocate teamsworked out of the community sites and metonce a week to share their experiences, projectstaff gathered data on health status indicatorsfor each community. The advocates and projectstaff developed an interview guide for a healthsurvey. By the end of the first year, theadvocates had formulated a list of priorityhealth concerns in their community, based ontheir work with residents. The list includedparental stress, substance abuse, adolescentpregnancy, lack of quality medical services,nutrition, mental health, crime, and domesticviolence.In addition to assessment activities inthe project's first year, the nurse advocate teamsperformed some individual advocacy functionsfor people in need of referral for health andsocial problems.In the second year, the teamincreased these services and developed plans toaddress the most pressing community healthneeds identified in the assessment process. Thenurse advocate teams work on activities such asfirst aid classes for children, well child care,parental support groups, hypertension andbreast cancer screening, acquiredimmunodeficiency syndrome education, andnutrition education. Evaluation of the projectinvolves documenting activities and collectingqualitative data. (HE9600951)019Community Health Aide Program: HealthCare for Rural Alaska Natives by RuralAlaska Natives.Form:Journal article.Author:Caldera, D.L.Source:Arctic Medical Research.(Supplement): 166 169, 1991.Abstract: The Community Health AideProgram (CHAP) serves approximately 45,000people living in 171 Native villages located upto1 ,300 miles from the nearest traditionalmedical facility. The health status of ruralAlaskan Natives is related to poverty, rapidsocial change, harsh climate and terrain, and theisolation of the communities where they live.The CHAP program grew out of Congressionalrecognition of the poor overall health of theNatives and the need to increase their healthservices. Momentum for the formal training ofvillage health workers increased between1 94013The Community Health Advisor/Workerand 1960.In 1968, Congress appropriatedfunds for training and salaries for 185community health aides (CHA's) to work in 157villages. The Alaska Native Claims SettlementAct of 1971 created nonprofit corporations toadminister health, education, and social welfareprograms for the Natives; these corporations arenow known as regional provider agencies(RPA's). A manual, Guidelines for PrimaryHealth Care in Rural Alaska 1976, wasdeveloped for statewide use outliningassessment and treatment guidelines for thevillage health worker. CHA's are Native healthworkers selected from and by the communitiesin which they live and work to provide primaryhealth care in the villages.In addition topatient care responsibilities, CHA's manage theclinic and maintain clinic records, supplies, andpharmacy. CHA's are the first point of contactto the Native health care system for most ruralAlaska Natives. Although CHA encounterstend to be acute care oriented, CHA's are alsoinvolved in the provision of prenatal and wellchild care.In the development of anappropriate patient care plan, the CHA relies onthe physicians and midlevel practitionersworking in referral hospitals.Consultingphysicians act as medical supervisors for theCHA's, and the RPA supervisors support theCHA's through their daily challenges.Basictraining consists of three training sessions,lasting 4, 3, and 3 weeks respectively, followedby a 2 week preceptorship. The Federal TortClaims Act provides liability coverage forfederal employees and thus for CHA's. CHA'shave become an indispensable component ofhealth care for Alaska Natives.Indexes ofhealth status among Alaska Natives, such asinfant mortality, life expectancy, number ofpersons hospitalized, and length ofhospitalization have improved since the CHAtraining and employment program began.13 references. (HE9700302)020Community Health Worker Programs:A Leadership Brief on CommunityPreventive Health.Form:Report.Corporate Author: Georgetown UniversityLaw Center, Harrison Institute for Public Lawand Codman Square Health Center, CivicHealth Institute.Source: Washington, DC, GeorgetownUniversity Law Center, Harrison Institute forPublic Law.Dorchester, MA, Codman SquareHealth Center, Civic Health Institute, 24 p.,February 1997.Abstract:This report discusses the design andeffect of community health worker (CHW)programs across the country. The first sectiondiscusses the role of prevention services in thehealth care system and the benefits ofpreventive health approaches. The secondsection describes the role of the CHW andexplains how CHW's can increase access tohealth care for medically underservedpopulations, improve quality of life and healthcare, provide cost savings to health systems andtaxpayers, and promote positive socialoutcomes for both individuals and thecommunity. The third section addresses thevariables around which CHW programs aredesigned:the mission or philosophy, focus,target population, CHW roles and job titles,method (e.g., home visit, health classes,mentoring, or advocacy), and host agency. Thefourth section profiles the key programvariables of four CHW programs:(1)Community Outreach Intervention Projects,(2) the Latino Health Access Project, (3) theCommunity Health Partnership, and (4) theCommunity Health Representative Program,which is provided through the Indian HealthService. The fifth section presents data thatillustrate the effectiveness of several CHW14Applications and Methodsprograms. The sixth section outlines varioustypes of public and private support for CHWprograms, including state policies and funding,recommendations from the NationalCommunity Health Advisor Study, and linkageswith managed care organizations. The seventhsection presents a policy agenda for CHWprograms and recommends steps that states,foundations, and CHW's can take to support theintegration of CHW programs into local healthcare systems. The final section describesresources available to CHW programs,including training guides and curricula,information sources, CHW and programnetworks, and state associations and networks.(HE9700749)021Community Health Workers: TheInterface Between Communities andHealth Care Systems.Form:Journal article.Author: Bryant, J.H.Source: WHO Chronicle.32(4): 144 148,April 1978.Abstract: The community health worker(CHW) approach can reach rural and urbanlow income residents in ways that mobilizetheir abilities and stimulate their interest inimproved health as part of a movement towardsa better future. CHW's can provide a linkbetween the resources of the community andthose of the health care system.Challengesconfronting CHW's include (1) reconciling theconflict of allegiance to the community on onehand and the health system on the other and (2)balancing individually oriented, clinicallydirected health care with group related,epidemiologically oriented functions. Toestablish community oriented programs,CHW's need technical skills that enable them tolead their communities in first, assessingproblems and needs, and then planning,implementing, and evaluating the programs.Selection and training of CHW's influencepatterns of allegiance. Those who select, train,supervise, and pay CHW's will have a stronginfluence on the direction and quality of theiraccountability. An important question iswhether communities should retain control overall aspects of CHW's or whether centralizedagencies of government should extend theirsystem to communities. The choice probablyshould be both, allowing for solutions thatencompass community control and theequitable distribution of services. The mostimportant principle is that a CHW programmust be community based and designed to meetthe needs of the people instead of peopleserving the systems. The article summarizesdiscussions at a symposium on CHW's,organized by the African Medical and ResearchFoundation International at Airlie House,Virginia, in October 1977.1 table.(HE9700086)022Community Health Workers: Who TheyAre and What They Do.Form:Journal article.Authors: Love, M.B.; Gardner, K.; Legion, V.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):510 522, August 1997.Abstract: The authors present the results of amail survey of health care providers in eightnorthern California counties. The survey wasdesigned to gather descriptive data on the roles,background, and working conditions ofcommunity health workers (CHW's). Thepopulation of health care service providers inthe eight counties was stratified by type ofhealth care organization. A preliminaryscreening determined if organizations employedor planned to employ CHW's. Organizations15The Community Health Advisor/Workerthat either currently employed at least oneCHW or intended to hire at least one CHWduring the next 3 years were eligible for thesurvey. A total of 504 CHW's were working in62 agencies; of these, 65 percent wereemployed full time and 35 percent part time.County health departments were the biggestemployers of CHW's (63 percent), followed bycommunity based organizations and clinics (35percent). Fifty five percent of the CHW's werepaid from ongoing hard money funds; 42percent were paid through grants of 3 years orless. Most CHW's were women (66 percent) ofcolor (77 percent) with a high school degree orless (58 percent). The largest concentration ofCHW's work in the area of HIV/AIDS andother sexually transmitted diseases (17 percent),followed by maternal child health/perinatalcare (16 percent), alcohol and drug abuse (11percent), and primary care (10 percent).Skillsthat respondents reported as most important tocommunity health work were multiculturalcompetence, community outreach, andcommunication and conflict resolution skills.Repondents reported that the skills that they hadthe most difficulty finding when hiring CHW'swere group facilitation skills, self management(job readiness), and reporting anddocumentation skills. Barriers to wideremployment of CHW's included (1) budgetconstraints, (2) lack of acceptance by otherprofessionals, (3) difficulty in supervisingemployees with uneven preparation, (4) lack ofacceptance of the CHW field, and (5) lack ofacceptance by clients. 6 tables, 38 references.(HE9701120)023Community Representatives: NewDirections in Education and Outreach.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: San Diego CountyDepartment of Health Services, Division ofPublic Health Education.Source: San Diego, CA, San Diego CountyDepartment of Health Services, Division ofPublic Health Education, Tobacco ControlResource Center, 78 p., 1995.Abstract: This manual offers guidance forprogram coordinators who are interested inusing community representatives in communityhealth education or outreach programs.Community representatives can be lay people orestablished professionals who live or work inthe targeted community. They are usually ofthe same ethnic and cultural background astheir clients and serve as a bridge to availableservices and resources in a community. Thecommunity representative model can beincorporated into existing programs or used asa strategy when developing new programs orprojects. The first section of the manual, Keysfor Program Coordinators, outlines thefunctions of the program coordinator in relationto community representatives.It addressesrecruiting, training, and overseeing communityrepresentatives and includes information on thespecial needs of youths who serve ascommunity representatives. The secondsection, Directions and Ideas to Share withCommunity Representatives, suggests thatprogram coordinators (1) teach the communityrepresentatives how to understand the client,(2) learn to identify community resources andnotify clients of these resources, (3) make apolished presentation to clients, and (4) useincentives. The third section, Strategies forEducation and Outreach, describes how toschedule and conduct presentations and16Applications and Methodsoutreach through local agencies, religiousorganizations, schools, and apartmentcomplexes, and at community health fairs.Appendixes for each section contain samplefliers, forms, attendance rosters, telephonescripts, presentation outlines, and pre andposttest measurements. (HE9700733)024Evaluating Training Programs forParaprofessionals and Nonprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Authors: D' Augelli, A.R.; Danish, S.J.Source:Journal of Counseling Psychology.23(3):247 253, 1976.Abstract: The authors discuss three majorareas relating to training programs forparaprofessional and nonprofessional humanservice workers and detail a potential researchstrategy for evaluation of each area. The firststrategy concerns assessment of the relativeimportance of selection versus training ofparaprofessional helpers.It is assumed thatcareful selection of individuals with certainqualities will result in effective helpers. Adesign is offered to determine the differentialusefulness of selection and training. The designhas four operational stages representing pointsin the candidate's journey through the selectionand training process:selection, training,assessment, and evaluation. The secondstrategy focuses on identifying critical factorsthat produce effective paraprofessional training.It assesses factors that contribute to learning interms of their salience in a given trainingprogram. The third strategy entails anevaluation of both the learning occurringthrough the training and the effect ofsystematically trained paraprofessional helperson their target group clients. A dual approach isrecommended in which several training groupsrepresenting different training approaches arecontrasted with control groups and then theeffect of trained helpers is examined.Multiplemeasures, objective and self report, areincluded in the evaluation of the program. Thestrategies outlined are intended to represent aninitial approach to an empirical base for trainingparaprofessional workers. The authors note thatparaprofessionals and nonprofessionals arelikely to be essential in the delivery of mentalhealth services in the future.3 figures,34 references. (HE9700494)025Family Dynamics for ParaprofessionalWorkers.Form:Journal article.Author: Ogren, E.H.Source: Family Coordinator.20(1):11 16,January 1971.Abstract: A course in family dynamics wasdeveloped to help paraprofessional familyhealth workers in an urban neighborhood healthcenter become an integral part of acomprehensive health care team. The familyhealth workers served as clinic assistants andcase finders, recorded family data, encouragedfamilies to use the services, and educatedfamilies regarding good physical and mentalhealth practices. The workers were generally 21to 50 years old, most were female, and mosthad completed high school. The trainingprogram focused on mechanical andcommunication skills, knowledge necessary fortask fulfillment, and the development ofpositive attitudes. The theory of familyinteraction was one of the mental healthconcepts taught, along with physiological andmedical information. The goals of the courseincluded( 1 ) increasing understanding of someof the social aspects of human behavior, (2)correcting stereotypes, (3) developing a positive17The Community Health Advisor/Workerapproach to problem solving, and (4)understanding the relationship between thecommunity and larger society and how thefamily can be helped to become a healthier unit.Lectures on theoretical material followed anoutline form to facilitate note taking by thetrainees. Numerous vignettes and exampleswere given to initiate class discussion andemphasize the relevance of the material. Amore complete course was developed for twolater training programs lasting 4 months and 6months and involving nearly 50 trainees.Indications through observation are that goalswere met, although no formal assessment wasconducted.10 references. (HE9700735)026Family Health Worker Revisited: A Five Year Follow Up.Form:Journal article.Authors:Torrey, E.F.; Smith, D.; Wise, H.Source: American Journal of Public Health.63(l):71 74, January 1973.Abstract: The authors assess a group of familyhealth workers 5 years after they were trained atthe Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Health Center inthe Bronx, New York. The population servedby this health center is approximately halfAfrican American and half Hispanic American.The family health workers were all recruitedfrom this population, had a variety of familyand educational backgrounds, and ranged in agefrom 25 to 53 years (average age was 38 years).They learned aspects of nursing, healtheducation, and social advocacy. Of the 72family health visitors trained, 50 had workedsteadily at the center. One became the DeputyDirector of the center, nine went on for furthertraining, and six resigned. All who werecurrent employed were working as part of aprimary care health team consisting of aninternist, a pediatrician, two nurse practitionersand six family health workers. The daily taskscarried out by the family health workers reflectthe problems of some of the families in thearea. The family health workers encounteredproblems that included (1) self esteem; (2) thedifficulty of changing roles for the family healthworker, supervising nurse, and consultingphysician; (3) lack of upward job mobility; (4)lack of lateral job mobility; (5) paternalism; (6)lack of project evaluation; and (7) questionableconceptual validity for the role of nursing health educator social advocacy. 7 references.(HE9700309)027Helping Beliefs Inventory as a Predictor ofVolunteer Counselor Training Outcome.Form:Journal article.Authors:Kelly, N.J.; McLennan, J.P.;Gotts, G.H.Source:Psychological Reports. 66 (3, Part 1):970, June 1990.Abstract: The Helping Beliefs Inventory is aself report measure of an individual's espousedbeliefs about the helpfulness of variouscounseling responses that can be used to predictsuccess as a volunteer.Relatively higher scoresindicate the belief that it is often helpful todistract clients from their feelings of distress,divert them from their problem situations, andtell them what to do. The inventory is bothinternally consistent and stable; scores arerelated to authoritarianism, low psychological mindedness, and lack of flexibility. A pretestwas administered to 5 1 volunteer counselor trainees with the Personal Emergency Service, alarge, metropolitan, voluntary, telephone crisis counseling agency sponsored by the HealthDepartment of Victoria, Australia. Aftercompleting the inventory, the volunteers (41females and 10 males) began the agency'sstandard 30 hour, small group based telephone18Applications and Methodscounseling skills training program.Instructorswere not informed of trainees' scores. By theend of the training program, 26 applicants (20females and 6 males) either had chosen to quitor had been asked to leave by the instructors.The mean pretraining scores of discontinuingtrainees was significantly higher than those ofthe 25 applicants who completed the training.Two judges evaluated the posttrainingcounseling skill level of those 25 trainees whocompleted the program using the agency'sstructured Trainee Evaluation Form.Pretraining inventory scores were significantlycorrelated with posttraining counseling skillsratings and with posttraining scores. Theresearchers concluded that these findingsconfirm previous indications that the HelpingBeliefs Inventory taps personal characteristicsrelated to success in the training of basiccounseling skills.1 reference. (HE9700337)028How To Guide of CURE/Heart, Body andSoul, Inc.: A People Work in Progress.Form: Manual.Author: Cameron, L.Source:Baltimore, MD, CURE/Heart, Bodyand Soul, Inc., 19 p., September 1996.Abstract: The How to Guide of CURE/Heart,Body and Soul, Inc.: A People Work inProgress presents the organization's model forplanning and implementing community healthpromotion programs. The essentialcharacteristics of this model include(1)community based leadership and ownership ofspecific programs, (2) training and use ofindigenous community health workers, (3)interdisciplinary community practice andtraining opportunities, (4) built in evaluation,and (5) broad community development andlong term maintenance of effective strategies.Section1, Breaking Ground, describesstrategies for successful partnership buildingwith special emphasis on how to get the churchinvolved.Section 2, Pouring the Foundation:Structuring the Organization, suggests how toformalize the organization especially regardingissues such as nonprofit status, fiscalmanagement, and administration.Section 3,Putting Up the Frames, describes the preventionprogram model, including the purpose of theprogram, the services offered, and theneighborhood health worker program.Section4, Tending to Furnishings, explains the six stepsused to develop programs.Section 5, Workingwith Raw Materials, describes goals and avariety of approaches to community healtheducation.Section 6, Making It Last, explainshow to maintain a program. (HE9700465)029Improvement of Community HealthServices Through the Support ofIndigenous Nonprofessionals.Form:Journal article.Author: Murphy, M.A.Source:Journal of the New York State NursesAssociation.3(2):29 33, October 1972.Abstract: Based on experiences with an urbancommunity outreach program, a nurse(1) demonstrates the reasons for the emergenceof the indigenous nonprofessional in a specifichealth care setting, (2) discusses ways in whichthe nonprofessional has been effective, (3)exposes problems inherent to the professional nonprofessional relationship, and (4) examinesmeans by which the relationship conflict can beresolved. The outreach center was a directresult of an urban, low income, high crimecommunity's demands for a health componentthat they could call their own. The communitywas composed of five subgroups that included(1) Irish Catholics living in apartments andhousing projects, (2) blacks living in housing19The Community Health Advisor/Workerprojects, (3) Hispanics living in housingprojects and isolated by language and culturalbarriers, (4) university students living in moredesirable spaces, and (5) people with social andeconomic mobility living in high rise, high rentapartments. Community representatives and anew prepayment group practice health planinitiated a contract program that usedcommunity coordinators to canvass thecommunity for prospective enrollees for thenew prepayment group practice health plan.The coordinators served as the emissariesbetween the health care system and the people.The coordinators interpreted the plan toresidents, assisted enrollees in completing amedical questionnaire, acquainted them withthe appointment system, made arrangements fortransportation, and accompanied some memberson their visits to the doctor or laboratory.Increased membership in the health planexpanded the role expectations andresponsibilities of the coordinators, advocates,interpreters, counselors, and crisis interveners.At the outreach center, coordinators and theircase work supervisor defined the coordinator'srole, which affected the kinds of services andthe personnel at the outreach center.10 references. (HE9700335)030It's a 24 Hour Thing, a Living for Each Other Concept:Identity, Networks, andCommunity in an Urban Village HealthWorker Project.Form:Journal article.Authors:Schulz, A.J.; Israel, B.A.; Becker,A.B.; Hollis, R.M.Source: Health Education and Behavior.24(4) :465 480, August 1997.Abstract: Understanding the experience andperceptions of community members involved inlay health advisor (LHA) programs is essentialfor health educators who design, implement,and evaluate such programs. The authorsexamine these factors from the perspective of asmall group of LHA's, called village healthworkers, working in a large urban communityin Detroit, Michigan. The Village HealthWorker Project is an intervention based on anecological approach designed to create changeat the individual, organizational, andcommunity levels. Using data from focusgroups, in depth interviews, document review,and participant observations, the authorsexplore (1) village health workers' under standing and experience of their work acrossthese levels and (2) the interface between layhealth work and a sense of self in relation tocommunity. A focus group was structuredaround descriptive and reflective questions. Thevillage health workers described themselves ascommunity oriented people. They said theybelieved it was essential for village healthworkers to like people, to be committed tocommunity work and readily available, and tohave a personal or spiritual foundation thatsupported service and action in the community.The workers described themselves as providingaffective, instrumental, and informationalsupport. They said they brought informationabout many health related topics and resourceswithin the community to community membersthrough their day to day activities and workedfor change in their communities. Many workersspoke of the knowledge they acquired abouthealth concerns and community resources, andthe skills that enabled them to conveyinformation more effectively to friends andneighbors. They said they were activelyencouraged by the opportunities the workprovides, such as the chance for personalchange and growth, participation in collectiveactivities, greater access to resources,employment, and personal satisfaction. Thisstudy has implications for (1) designingprograms that build on LHA expertise and20Applications and Methodsknowledge of their communities, (2) structuringthe relationship of LHA programs tocommunity organizations and institutions, and(3) supporting LHA activities toward change atmultiple levels in their communities.47 references. (HE9701 1 1 8)031Latino Health Advocacy Program:A Collaborative Lay Health AdvisorApproach.Form:Journal article.Authors:Baker, E.A.; Bouldin, N.; Durham,M.; Lowell, M.E.; Gonzalez, M.; Jodaitis, N.;Cruz, L.N.; Torres, I.; Torres, M.; Adams, S.T.Source:Health Education and Behavior.24(4):495 509, August 1997.Abstract: The authors discuss the LatinoHealth Advocacy Program in Winchester,Massachusetts, and describe programdevelopment, the methodology used to monitorand evaluate the pilot project, and some initialresults of program activities. The Latino HealthAdvocacy Program is a collaborative, culturallyappropriate, holistic, and ecological lay healthadvisor pilot project intended to improve accessto and use of health and human services by theLatino community through a culturally sensitivemodel of prevention and empowerment. Theprogram design group initially had 12 members,with a core group of 7 (5 Latinos and 2 non Hispanic whites) who worked throughout thepilot period. The program design groupdecided to increase knowledge and awarenessof community resources and address thebarriers to using health and human services.The group worked with community health andhuman service agencies and also developed aSpanish health resource library containinghealth and human service materials that wereused in working one on one with clients and inconducting community outreach activities (e.g.,mesas informativas de salud, or healthinformation tables). The program groupconducted program activities in oneneighborhood with a large Latino populationand in several health and human serviceagencies accessible to the community.Evaluation focused primarily on formativeevaluation activities. These includedcommunity outreach forms, intake forms, andwritten and audiotaped progress notes. Datasuggest that clients were working with theadvocates to access services and resources inthe community and that Latino health advocateswere able to address underlying causes of theproblems rather than just symptoms.Inaddition, the program staff used the mesasinformativas de salud to provide healthinformation as well as information about healthand human service agencies. Moreover, othercommunity health practitioners could use theinformation in their work. The authors suggestthat lay health advisor models that are culturallyappropriate, holistic, ecological, and based onlocal needs can have a positive effect on acommunity.1 5 references. (HE970 1119)032Lay Home Visiting Programs:Strengths,Tensions and Challenges.Form:Journal article.Authors: Lamer, M.; Halpern, R.Source: Zero to Three:Bulletin of NationalCenter for Clinical Infant Programs.8( 1 ): 1 7,September 1987.Abstract: The authors discuss the strengths ofthe home visiting strategy that uses laycommunity workers and the tensions andimplementation challenges that make it difficultfor these programs to achieve maximumbenefits. Home visiting typically combinescore activities such as information sharing,modeling, demonstration, emotional support,21The Community Health Advisor/Workerjoint problem solving, and service brokerageand assistance in meeting pressing needs.Home visits represent a way to reach out toyoung families by offering sustained contactand placing the helping interaction in a lessthreatening environment than that found in mostagencies. Lay workers can find eligible familiesby using their networks of personal contactsand knowledge of local activity patterns andthey tend to be accepted by families morequickly than professionals might be accepted.Implementation challenges related to using layhome visitors include(1) articulating realisticroles for lay workers, (2) discovering skills andpersonal qualities in home visitors, (3)establishing a training system that builds onstrengths and allows for the introduction ofspecialized knowledge, and (4) providing asupervisor who will nurture and monitor thecontinued development of the lay workers.Tensions confronting lay workers include(1)defining a new social role that is half friend andhalf intervenor, (2) juggling conflictinginterpersonal purposes and styles demanded bythe role, (3) moving back and forth betweentwo cultures, and (4) building on experiencesacquired through home visiting work in order toachieve personal goals in the wider society.21 references. (HE9700495)033Leadership for Primary Health Care.Form:Journal article.Authors: McElmurry, B.J.; Tyska, C;Gugenheim, A.M.; Misner, S.; Poslusny, S.Source: Nursing and Health Care Perspectiveson Community.16(4):229 233, June 1995.Abstract:In this article the authors describethe Leadership for Primary Health Care project,a collaborative effort of the Colleges of Nursingand Medicine at the University of Illinois atChicago, that involved the development of apartnership between the university and thecommunities in which faculty members andstudents participated. The project was designedto create a leadership academy of primaryhealth care professionals and communityadvocates who understood the principles ofprimary health care and could apply and spreadthe philosophy, concepts, and strategies ofcommunity participation in their practice andeducational and research activities. Academymembers participated in an educationalfellowship for an academic year, with weeklymeetings. The educational component of theproject consisted of five modules: primaryhealth care, leadership development,community development, health care systemorganization, and information resources anddata organization. Leadership fellows focusedon developing eight skills: communityidentification and assessment, communityassets identification, participatory planning,consensus building, community mobilizationand organizing, negotiating, participation inpublic policy formulation, and critical thinking.Project staff said that they learned that theprimary health care approach has the potentialto address community health issues in moreconstructive ways than are typically used inconventional public health approaches.1 figure, 3 tables, 2 references. (HE9600952)22Applications and Methods034Models That Work: Compendium ofInnovative Primary Health Care Programsfor Underserved and VulnerablePopulations, 1996.Form:Directory.Corporate Author: US Department of Healthand Human Services, Health Resources andServices Administration, Bureau of PrimaryCare.Source:Bethesda, MD, US Department ofHealth and Human Services, Health Resourcesand Services Administration, Bureau of PrimaryHealth Care, 223 p., 1996.Abstract: This directory profiles programsselected in 1996 by the Models That WorkCampaign as examples of outstandinggrassroots efforts to improve access to primaryhealth care for underserved persons. Thepurpose of the campaign is to identifyexemplary programs and encourage theirreplication in other communities. Applicants arejudged on five criteria: communityresponsiveness, innovation, partnerships andcollaboration between participatingorganizations, evidence of improved access toprimary health care services and health relatedoutcomes, and program replication orsustainability. Many of the model programs usethe community health advisor strategy. Thiscompendium describes the 5 winning programsand the 10 special honorees selected in 1996.Italso outlines applicant programs in 15 self selected categories:business participation, cityor county participation, dental health,farmworker health, health professions programparticipation, HIV/AIDS, the health of thehomeless, hospital participation, low budgetprograms, managed care, maternal and childhealth, religious organization participation,rural health, state coordination, and substanceabuse prevention and treatment. Eachdescription includes