opening a trial here at NYU Langone. The second is a national trial that will investigate the use of prophylactic radiation therapy—compared with standard of care—for asymptomatic, high-risk bone metastases. In most cases, radiation therapy is utilized to treat painful bone metastases, but we’re interested in examining the potential advantages of a proactive strategy. The study protocol, which builds upon a previous phase 2 trial , is currently being finalized, with plans to open later this year. What excites you about combining targeted therapy with radiotherapy? Drug–radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs, but still working towards overcoming obstacles and improving patient outcomes. “Drug-radiotherapy combinations have reached a defining moment. With multiple trials in progress, we’re on the cusp of breakthroughs.” To overcome barriers, such as the perceived impracticality of conventional regulatory end points and comparatively more-limited collaborations among sponsors and radiation oncologists, we’ll have to prioritize communication among key stakeholders. In addition, there is still a considerable amount of work needed to reduce attrition rates of novel radiosensitizers in the clinic. In a nutshell, we’re not quite there yet, but we’re moving in the right direction. Opening the Doors to Collaboration Looking ahead, what are your plans for the next three to five years? We plan to open more clinical trials. To achieve this goal, we plan to pursue further public and private research funding, strengthen relationships with our industry partners, and build collaborations with experts within and outside of the cancer center. Our main focus will be on developing novel therapeutic strategies for primary brain tumors and systemic metastatic disease. Health outcomes studies, particularly those incorporating quality of life assessments, will also be a priority. In addition, we will further enhance our understanding of tumor biology through investigation of genomics and changes to the tumor microenvironment in the setting of novel therapeutics. This will help us to better personalize treatments. Unlike standalone cancer centers, Perlmutter Cancer Center’s placement within a larger healthcare system offers unique opportunities for research collaborations. Few institutions prioritize research to the level that NYU Langone does. Jonathan T. Yang, MD, PhD, is the associate vice chair of clinical research and developmental therapeutics in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of clinical research at the Brain and Spine Tumor Center, part of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treating metastatic cancers and CNS malignancies using advanced radiation techniques. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Hot topics included personalized medicine, CRISPR, healthcare disparities, and liquid biopsies. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 ASCO Annual Meeting Meet the cancer experts joining international colleagues in Chicago from May 31 to June 4. Bevacizumab Biosimilar Could Drive Up Costs New study finds an anti-VEGF biosimilar could increase costs to patients and the healthcare system. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox Mpox manifestations in patients with untreated HIV/AIDS bear striking resemblance to progressive vaccinia. Challenging Old Ideas About Retinal Band 2 Visible light OCT reveals that the region’s association with mitochondria needs rethinking. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Experimental organoid-based system could offer a leap forward for research into blinding corneal diseases. AI Predicts Outcomes & Treatment Frequency for Retinal Vein Occlusion In patients treated for macular edema with intravitreal aflibercept, AI may provide insights into personalized treatments. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Digital version of Rapid Automized Naming could have broad neurological applications. Rapid Automized Naming (RAN) tasks have shown strong potential in the assessment of a variety of neurologic disorders. One RAN task, the Mobile Universal Lexicon Evaluation System (MULES) test, has also been shown to accurately detect sports-related concussion in a sideline setting, when used in conjunction with the Staggered Uneven Number (SUN) test. Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE , lead the NYU Langone Health team that developed both the MULES and SUN tests. They recently partnered with Marc J. Balcer, MS, a software developer and Dr. Balcer’s brother, to create a mobile version of the tests. The is optimized for use on a tablet device, allowing for greater flexibility in onsite testing. “Because it is portable, the MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease, perhaps even remotely from the office setting,” says Dr. Balcer. “The MICK app has important implications for scalability, applicability and accessibility of RAN tasks to assess patients with neurologic disease.” Sideline Concussion Analysis MULES and SUN were developed in partnership with NYU Langone’s , where Drs. Balcer and Galetta have been involved in decades-long research on the use of rapid number naming , rapid picture naming and laboratory-based eye tracking in the diagnosis and sideline assessment of sports-related concussion “Most studies that assess neurologic function have concentrated on walking and maybe cognition, despite the enormous importance of vision,” explains Dr. Galetta. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” MULES reflects 80 years of literature on RAN tests that assess vision and cognitive performance; the newer SUN test also captures eye movement, concentration, and visual processing. “MULES and SUN are based on a long continuum of research into the biological underpinnings of neurologic injury,” Dr. Galetta says. “These tests help assess the many visual pathways in the brain affected by a concussion, and how we can better examine and treat athletes and other patients.” Building and Testing a Mobile Option Dr. Balcer remarks that invention comes naturally to her and her brother, Mark – their father, “Mick,” was a civil engineer. “In addition to portability for clinical assessment, we wanted to create a mobile testing option that would provide widespread access for research, the potential for data sharing, and integration into electronic medical records,” she says. “We also wanted it to be free to anyone. Grateful patients have started a fund to make this possible.” A new study Journal of the Neurological Sciences compares the digital version of the MULES and SUN tests in the MICK app with the current paper versions. The MICK app format demonstrated excellent agreement of time scores with paper-pencil testing among adult volunteers. Additionally, the team has completed pilot testing with Yeshiva University, and the Michigan State University and Penn State University football teams are testing the app to compare baseline and sideline data. Broadening Applications Beyond concussion, the team is using the MULES and SUN tests to aid in detection of other neurologic disorders. “We’ve found that the MULES test in particular can separate patients from controls who have multiple sclerosis, , and more recently those who have mild cognitive impairment related to Alzheimer’s disease versus those with normal aging,” says Dr. Balcer. The military has shown interest in using the MICK app for traumatic brain injury . Navy Seals who are now NYU Grossman School of Medicine students will be working with the team to study the viability of the technology in the field. MULES has also been tested in cohorts of post-call residents and COVID-19 survivors “We have seen that picture naming differentiates people who’ve had COVID with those who haven’t had COVID,” Dr. Balcer notes. “This may reflect cognitive impairment, in part.” “We’re excited about the many prospects ahead for this application,” Dr. Galetta says. “As neuro-ophthalmologists, we try to fill the gap between where the optic nerve begins and how it projects to the brain. It is important that physicians understand how visual dysfunction may be indicative of neurologic disease.” Laura J. Balcer, MD Laura J. Balcer, MD, MSCE, is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology. She specializes in evaluating and treating patients with visual symptoms related to disorders of the optic nerve and brain, including multiple sclerosis, concussion, and other neurologic conditions. Her research focuses on development of clinical outcome measures for vision in neurologic disease. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Advanced imaging provides mounting evidence for updating MS diagnostic criteria. PHOTO: Science Source Current international diagnostic criteria for multiple sclerosis (MS) do not include the optic nerve as an imaging lesion site, despite the high prevalence of acute optic neuritis (ON) among early MS patients. Since the latest evaluation of these criteria in 2017, neuro-ophthalmologists , have been adding to the evidence for incorporation of the optic nerve into MS diagnostics. “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation. However, research that patients who present with spinal cord or brainstem lesions on MRI typically progress to MS, left people with ON at a disadvantage. Their lesions in the optic nerve weren’t counted,” Dr. Galetta says. Studies have suggested that inter-eye differences in retinal nerve fiber layer thickness, as measured by spectral-domain optical coherence tomography (SD-OCT), optimize identification of people with a history of ON “Imaging the optic nerve with OCT is more sensitive for indicating there’s been a demyelinating event,” Dr. Balcer says. “In a younger person, there are a limited number of entities besides MS that could cause thinning of the axonal layer.” “About 25 percent of MS patients have ON as their first manifestation.” Building the Case for Inclusion foundational study in 2017 , Dr. Balcer and colleagues established the validity of low-contrast letter acuity (LCLA) as a visual performance outcome measure for MS over high-contrast visual acuity, which has been used for decades. Deficits in LCLA and vision-specific quality of life are found many years after an episode of acute ON, even when high-contrast visual acuity has recovered. Several further studies have aided in determining optimal thresholds for inter-eye differences in retinal layer thickness that are most predictive of a unilateral optic nerve lesion. single-center analysis comparing healthy volunteers to people with MS, and then in a multicenter study with the International MS Visual System Consortium , the researchers confirmed inter-eye differences of 5μm for the peripapillary retinal nerve fiber layer (pRNFL) and 4μm for the macular ganglion cell inner plexiform layer (GCIPL) as robust thresholds. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that. It turned out to be an even stronger structure/function coordination than we had thought,” Dr. Balcer says. Evaluating Long-Term Outcomes The next step was to demonstrate that early diagnosis of ON and initiation of MS treatment would slow disease progression. The researchers used a cohort from MSBase , an international online registry containing about 80,000 patient records. “The MSBase study is a longer study – 5 years – and people tended not to exit once they were in it,” Dr. Galetta notes. “We were able to look at disability, both visually and that initial treatment trials of the clinically isolated syndrome didn’t include.” In the MSBase cohort, early treatment after ON diagnosis was associated with better long-term visual and neurological outcomes compared to no treatment. The results support early treatment for patients presenting with ON as the first manifestation of MS. “Low-contrast acuity was shown to detect the subtle deficits. Then, OCT came along to validate that.” Assessing Diagnostic Accuracy In new research soon to be published, a team including Dr. Balcer, Dr. Galetta and Rachel Kenney, PhD, a former NYU Langone Health neuro-ophthalmology fellow, demonstrate that a composite score incorporating visual function tests such as LCLA, combined with SD-OCT measurements, improves the ability to identify patients with MS. The research team includes colleagues in the Advanced Ophthalmic Imaging Lab and from several partnering institutions. The researchers measured pRNFL and GCIPL thicknesses on SD-OCT devices and developed a composite score, combining OCT and other visual measures. They compared this score with individual measurements to determine the best model, and used support vector machine analysis to confirm that the model improved the diagnostic capability of OCT. The study provides class III evidence that SD-OCT can accurately distinguish people with MS from others and those with a history of unilateral ON. Combined with the MSBase evidence for improved outcomes, the team is hoping the findings are enough to get ON added to the MS criteria in the next evaluation. “Vision has always been last to the table. We’ve had to prove everything beyond a reasonable doubt. It’s been really gratifying to be able to present such strong evidence,” Dr. Galetta says. Community-Based Outreach: Changing the Model for Hearing Loss Screening A new program for low-income immigrant families tests bringing ENT care to patients. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In the U.S., 5 out of every 1,000 children experience hearing loss, which can affect quality of life, language acquisition, and learning. Even mild hearing loss can cause a child to miss as much as 50 percent of content covered in a classroom setting. Yet, hearing loss in children often goes unrecognized, particularly in low-income immigrant families who may come from countries where early hearing screening is not mandated. To test the theory that improving community access to hearing screenings can help to close the gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the NYU Langone Health have launched the Hearing Loss Awareness and Screening Program for Low-Income Immigrant Families. This clinical and research partnership is introducing screenings into nontraditional settings such as community centers and faith-based organizations. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss,” says J. Thomas Roland, Jr., MD , the Mendik Foundation Professor of Otolaryngology and chair of the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. “The goal is to understand the incidence of unrecognized hearing loss and the causes in this age group, and to establish ongoing best-in-class programs and care to treat the hearing loss.” Defining Screening Best Practices Because hearing is so closely tied with learning and social adaptation, it is critical to identify hearing loss early, says Moses Mansu, DrPH , the program’s director. In the U.S., most babies are screened at birth, but this is not true in other countries, he adds. “If you’re able to intervene early, you have an opportunity to manage the problem. It is less likely to affect children socially.” The program will educate parents in low-income immigrant communities about hearing loss and how it may present in children, and will connect children with treatment to reduce adverse outcomes. If a family lacks insurance for their child, the program will help them to enroll in free state services. Leveraging Community Engagement The three-year pilot, supported by a generous gift from the Silverstein family, is projected to reach 1,100 community members with information and screen at least 120 children in its first year. The program will partner with two community-based organizations and four faith-based organizations in Brooklyn. In its second year, it will expand to Mineola, where NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island is located. “We have a church that provides worship services to Chinese and Latino immigrants, a mosque serving Arab and Asian Muslims, and a church serving predominantly West Indian immigrants,” says Dr. Mansu. “The Flatbush location has an affiliated academy, which gives us the opportunity to test school screenings.” During the program’s first year, each location is required to hold at least one educational workshop and two screening events, and to promote the program on-site. Marie T. Homsi, MD , a clinical assistant professor of pediatric otolaryngology, helped to lead the educational effort, developing presentations for public awareness and volunteer education, as well as multilingual materials for the program’s diverse audiences. NYU Langone physicians will train community volunteers in hearing loss screening techniques and ways to refer children for follow-up care. The team will track screenings and referrals and will measure awareness among parents. Advocating for Nationwide Change Dr. Roland, who has implemented a similar hearing loss screening program in Uganda, recently led a training for the program’s volunteers. He is a strong advocate for federal legislation that would make hearing screening more accessible for all families. “Every child should be able to maximize their potential,” he says. Health Equity, Community Engagement Moses Mansu, DrPH, oversees the daily operations of community engagement initiatives in the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. He is the former director of faith-based initiatives at the New York City Department of Health. Testing a New Embolic Material for Chronic Subdural Hematoma While endovascular embolization using nonadhesive agents is an established method to treat many neurologic disorders, middle meningeal artery (MMA) embolization is a relatively new concept for treating chronic subdural hematomas (SDHs). ongoing clinical trial , NYU Langone Health neurosurgical researchers Eytan Raz, MD, PhD , are examining the safety and efficacy of MMA embolization using SQUID, a potentially best-in-class, low-viscosity liquid particle embolic agent for the management of chronic SDH. “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice.” “We have seen some remarkable early results with this procedure in clinical practice,” Dr. Nossek says. “MMA embolization is a very promising strategy that could potentially revolutionize our ability to care for patients with chronic SDH.” Collaboration between NYU Langone’s Departments of is making it possible to study the transformative therapy. “In our field, multidisciplinary collaboration is essential,” Dr. Nossek says. “We cannot function without each other.” Evaluating Treatment Outcomes Based on promising early results, the researchers are optimistic about the potential for MMA embolization to advance the standard of care and improve the quality of life of patients with this debilitating condition. If the trial results are favorable, it could prompt the FDA to approve the embolic system for this indication. Unlike patients who receive traditional burr hole drainage, those treated with SQUID could have a reduced likelihood of recurrence and complications. MMA embolization also offers immediate benefits, including a procedural duration of under an hour from start to finish. “SQUID may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and visibility.” “SQUID is a promising nonadhesive, liquid embolic agent that may assist in resolving some of the current drawbacks of other embolic agents, such as low penetration and poor visibility—especially during longer procedures,” Dr. Raz says. In the trial, patients will receive either MMA embolization with SQUID or standard management without embolization. The primary outcome is treatment failure, defined as residual or re-accumulation of the SDH, re-operation or surgical rescue, or any new, major disabling stroke after enrollment, as well as myocardial infarction or death from any neurologic cause, within six months of the intervention. “We expect this trial to also provide tremendous insight into the natural history of the disease, which has not been well characterized,” Dr. Nossek adds. Ensuring Long-Term Safety The team anticipates the study will yield new insights into the long-term safety of MMA embolization for chronic SDH, explains Dr. Raz, noting that while most prior studies have followed patients for a few weeks post-embolization, the current trial is following patients for six months. Albeit rare, potential risks of MMA embolization include access artery occlusion and spontaneous dural arteriovenous fistulas. In the study, the team aims to better characterize the risk of these complications as current data are limited. Ideal Candidates According to Dr. Raz, embolization of the MMA with SQUID may be particularly useful for patients with comorbidities that require permanent anticoagulation or antiplatelet therapy, especially given that embolization is typically less invasive than open surgery. “Many patients presenting with chronic SDH are on anticoagulation therapy,” Dr. Raz says. “While surgical evacuation of a chronic SDH requires interruption of anticoagulation therapy, embolization of the MMA using SQUID can be carried out without stopping anticoagulation therapy—this may be a potential safety feature.” The researchers eagerly await the forthcoming results, which they expect by mid to late 2024. Erez Nossek, MD, is an associate professor of neurosurgery and director of the Cranial Bypass Program. His clinical and research interests include cranial bypass surgery, brain aneurysms, and stroke. Neurointerventional Radiology, Neuroradiology Eytan Raz, MD, PhD, is an associate professor of radiology. His clinical and research interests include embolization, stroke, MRI, and endovascular procedures. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Improve Lung Transplant Outcomes Timely pre-transplant testing for GERD holds revolutionary potential for improving outcomes. Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists National leader in computer-aided polyp detection discusses applications ahead for AI in endoscopy. Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease A mechanism has been discovered that leaves gut cells vulnerable in genetically susceptible individuals. Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Computer-aided polyp detection systems boost detection of small and large adenomas. Improving Music Perception in Cochlear Implant Users David M. Landsberger, PhD Although cochlear implants (CIs) can be remarkably effective in enabling deaf people to understand spoken language, most users find it difficult to enjoy music through these devices. To improve CI performance in this area, it will be necessary to learn how different elements of sound quality influence patients’ experience of music—a topic that remains poorly understood. an auditory scientist at NYU Langone Health, is one of the few researchers systematically investigating this question. He and his team have developed a unique approach: studying patients with single-sided deafness (SSD). Here, he discusses his findings and their implications for the future of CI therapy. Recognizing the Importance of Music to CI Users Dr. Landsberger, what first got you interested in the issue of music perception among CI users? Dr. Landsberger: When I was first introduced to the CI as a PhD student, I learned that although CIs can provide an impressive ability to understand spoken language, the experience of music with a cochlear implant is awful. “I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another.” I’ve always considered music one of the most important ways in which humans connect to their emotions and to one another, so I recognized a need to fix this problem. That requires a deeper understanding of the basic components in our enjoyment of music. Fortunately, the CI allows for a deep exploration of these components, which cannot be manipulated for a typical hearing listener. Emerging Patient Population Prompts a New Approach What led you to focus on CI users with SSD for this research? This population has emerged only since 2008, when researchers in Belgium reported that CIs could help control tinnitus in patients with SSD. It turned out that CIs also improved understanding of speech, a finding that led to growing numbers of people with SSD receiving implants. At a conference a few years ago, I met a singer with SSD who insisted on using her CI when she performed. She said it made the music sound better and gave her greater confidence on stage. Other CI users with SSD told me the same thing. That seemed paradoxical. On the one hand, people who’ve lost hearing in one ear often report a diminished experience of music. Paul Simon, who has developed SSD, recently told a reporter that when he hears himself perform, he thinks he sounds like “a Paul Simon cover band.” Yet elements like pitch, harmony, and timbre are greatly distorted with a CI. Users who are deaf in both ears describe music as sounding sour, thin, and out of tune. All of which made me wonder: Do CIs really improve music perception in people with SSD? And if so, why? How did you look for answers? In 2013, we launched a series of studies in collaboration with the Belgian team—whose audiologist, Dr. Katrien Vermeire, later became my wife—aimed at understanding this phenomenon. As subjects, we chose CI users with SSD who had musical training, figuring that they could articulate their perceptions and perform tasks involving tone recognition more precisely than untrained participants. We began by investigating pitch perception through the subjects’ implants and their healthy ears, and how it was influenced by frequency, place of stimulation amplitude modulation . We also examined pleasantness ratings for harmonic intervals with acoustic and electric hearing, trying to get a sense of what types of sounds were enjoyable or unpleasant for these patients. But the turning point came when we examined the experience of music for these patients in a more holistic way. Recent Findings Could Have Broader Implications Tell us about that breakthrough. In that study, published in 2020 in Ear and Hearing , we worked with Dr. Mario Svirsky and his group here at NYU Langone, as well as with our Belgian colleagues. We tested subjects’ responses to song segments under several conditions, using a scale of 0 to 200. “Patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an ‘auditory ruler.’” First, we played each segment through their healthy ear, and instructed them to rate their enjoyment at 100. Next, we played a version that had been heavily distorted by a noise-band vocoder—again using their healthy ear—and asked them to rate it at 0. We then played the undistorted segments through the subjects’ implants alone, and then through their implants and their healthy ears together. The results confirmed what the singer had reported. Music presented through the CI alone was very unpleasant, with an average rating of 17. But music presented through the CI and the healthy ear together was rated more enjoyable than acoustic processing alone, with an average score of 123. Since then, we’ve been working to identify factors that contribute to that difference. One technique we’ve developed is to have participants vocally imitate what they hear when we play a note or an interval, trying to capture not only pitch but things like timbre and sound quality. Does this work have implications for CI users who are deaf in both ears, as well? Absolutely. When you ask most patients who are deaf in both ears what music sounds like through the device, it’s hard to get a useful answer. You don’t know what their frame of reference is. Typically, they’ve experienced degraded auditory systems for a long time. Do they remember what music is supposed to sound like? Did they ever know in the first place? We hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users.” But patients with SSD can directly compare their musical experience between their implant and their healthy ear. That ear serves as an “auditory ruler,” allowing us to measure things in a more objective way. By studying this population, we hope to gain insights that will help us improve musical enjoyment for all CI users. Cochlear Implants, Deafness David M. Landsberger, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Otolaryngology—Head and Neck Surgery. His research centers on developing new sound processing strategies to provide improved sound quality, speech in noise understanding, and information transfer to cochlear implant users. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Dr. Leigh Charvet, director of the trailblazing program, discusses the method’s benefits and expanding applications. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2024 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts join other world leaders in Denver for the 2024 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses By building the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date, researchers help elucidate patient risk. Clarifying Connections Between Acoustic Tumor Size and Hearing Loss Serial MRI and audiometric data reveal trends in untreated vestibular schwannomas. The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg . 2021 Aug 20;1-8. For every cubic centimeter increase in tumor size, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). ADAPTED FROM: J. Neurosurg New research in the Journal of Neurosurgery shows how tumor volume and growth rate affect hearing in patients with vestibular schwannomas, bringing clarity to a contentious topic. While more than 90 percent of patients with these noncancerous growths present with some hearing loss, many choose not to intervene due to concerns over further impairment. However, even if an acoustic tumor does not grow larger, risks to Class A and serviceable hearing remain. “Hearing loss can occur with small or large tumors,” says , co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” A team at NYU Langone Health including Dr. Golfinos, , analyzed serial imaging and audiometric data from 128 patients with untreated, unilateral vestibular schwannomas. MRI allowed the researchers to calculate total tumor volumes, as opposed to relying on more traditional single-axis diameter measurements. “By understanding the relationship between tumor growth and hearing loss, we are better able to choose appropriate management strategies.” The average baseline tumor volume was 0.24 cubic centimeters. Participants with larger initial tumors experienced more hearing loss over time. The same was true for those with faster-growing tumors. For every cubic centimeter increase, the researchers found an elevated risk of Class A hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.5) and serviceable hearing loss (hazard ratio=1.3). Risk appeared to increase linearly without any evident threshold growth rate resulting in a significant jump. As a next step, the team plans to analyze how other factors, such as cochlear injury, nerve compression, tumor location, or neurodegeneration, might impact hearing loss in vestibular schwannomas. “The NYU Skull Base Surgery team has tremendous patient volumes.  This data as well as previous work related to patient treatment outcomes helps us inform recommendations that assist patients with acoustic neuroma management decisions,” Dr. Roland says. John G. Golfinos, MD, is Joseph Ransohoff Professor of Neurosurgery, a professor of otolaryngology–head and neck surgery, chair of the Department of Neurosurgery, and co-director of the Brain & Spine Tumor Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research interests include the molecular biology of brain tumors and clinical progression in neurofibromatosis. Probing Long COVID’s Driving Factors & Relative Risks Study of patients in the Post-COVID Care Program seeks genetic and immunological clues and therapeutic strategies. Advancing Treatment of Bronchiectasis & Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Lung Infections Research seeks to find optimal interventions for these difficult-to-treat conditions. Resecting a Pediatric Tracheal Tumor with Robotic Surgery CHEST President on the Road Ahead for Pulmonary, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine Inclusion, education and communication, and improving healthcare access will be among the national group’s priorities. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AANS Annual Scientific Meeting NYU Langone Health experts joined colleagues from around the world at the 2024 American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ Annual Scientific Meeting in Chicago. This year’s theme is “What Matters,” which comes at a time “when all of us need to reconsider our appropriate roles and responsibilities in the broader fabric of modern civilization,” according to the organizers. Friday, May 3 MIS Tubular Decompression +/– Percutateous Fixation + SBRT Minimally Invasive Spinal Surgery: Comprehensive and Practical Review of Contemporary Approaches and Techniques (PC1103) Ilya Laufer, MD 1:58–2:07PM Saturday, May 4 Spine Discussion Surgical Videos from the Masters: How I Do It 2:26–2:31PM Utility of the Integral Dose for Predicting Radiosurgery Response in Patients with Trigeminal Neuralgia Pain Rapid Fire Abstract Ying Meng NYU Langone Co-Authors: Kenneth Bernstein, MS; Benjamin Cooper, MD ; Jason Gurewitz, MD; ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA; Joshua S. Silverman, MD, PhD 4:24–4:26PM Lunsford and Leksell Radiosurgery Award: Vestibular Schwannoma International Study of Active Surveillance Versus Stereotactic Radiosurgery: The VISAS Study Extra-Axial Tumor Surgery: The Intersection of Surgical and Non-Surgical Treatment ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Zane Schnurman, MD 4:41–4:45PM AANS/CNS Joint Section on Tumors Neuro-Oncology Trainee Award: Revisiting the Evans Index: Radiographic Predictors of Hydrocephalus Risk After Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Vestibular Schwannoma Brandon A. Santhumayor, BA ; Elad Mashiach, MSc; Ying Meng; Lauren Rotman, MD; 4:51–4:55PM What Matters: Neurosurgeons and Society Plenary IV 11:07–11:20AM CD97 (ADGRE5) – A Targetable Vulnerability in Glioblastoma Tumor Rapid Fire Abstract Hayley Donaldson, MS Shohei Koide, PhD ; Karenna J. Groff, BS, MEng; Takamitsu Hattori, PhD Christopher Y. Park, MD, PhD ; Niklas Ravn-Boess, PhD; Shuai Wang, MD, PhD 1:43–1:45PM Preliminary Results from the eShunt System Pilot Study in Idiopathic Normal-Pressure Hydrocephalus Cerebrovascular Rapid Fire Abstract NYU Langone Co-Author: 4:12–4:16PM Monday, May 6 Past, Present, and Future of AI in Neurosurgery The Past, Present, and Future of Clinical Data Science (NC4402) 7:11–7:36AM Raman Spectroscopy and AI for Brain Tumor Diagnosis Comprehensive Brain Tumor Care in the Era of Targeted Therapies and Novel Imaging Techniques (NC4403) 8:31–8:50AM Role of Organized Neurosurgery in Training Future Technical Leaders (Panel Discussion) 11:35AM–12:00PM Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Global collaboration fosters learning for pediatric spinal cord injury rehabilitation and beyond. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine The incoming president of the AAPM&R discusses his vision for the future of the specialty. A Legacy of Mild TBI & Impacted Cognitive Function for Military Personnel Researchers examine the potential lingering effects of blast-induced neurotrauma on active service members and veterans. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation A sensor-based, machine learning platform aims to improve the rigor and effectiveness of rehabilitation therapy. Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy When a patient with cerebral palsy (CP) comes through the doors at the , medical director Mara Karamitopoulos, MD , focuses her attention on one thing: offering every option—from hip reconstruction to targeted rehabilitation—to help every child hit individual care goals. “Two patients might appear clinically identical on X-rays and exams but have very different functional goals. Care absolutely has to be driven by each family,” she says. Given that there is no single, specific treatment target, effective management of patients with CP requires close coordination of specialties—an approach to care that the Center for Children was built to provide. The center is one of only a select few offering truly comprehensive, multidisciplinary care for CP, placing special emphasis on ensuring that social determinants don’t hurt access to high-quality care. “We treat children and families with very high social needs, including housing and food insecurity. We work to connect them with both the best