of Your Game A Patient’s Guide to Shoulder Replacement Surgery: Podcast Martial Artist Doing What He Loves After Hip Replacement Our orthopedic experts provide world-class care through our specialty programs. NYU Langone orthopedic surgeons and primary care sports medicine doctors care for people with acute and chronic sports-related and overuse injuries through the Through the , we provide injury care, physical therapy, and obstetric–gynecologic care, as well as training advice designed to help women reach their athletic goals. Pediatric sports medicine specialists provide care for sports-related injuries through the Center for Young Athletes . At the , our exercise physiologists offer the latest fitness training and testing to help you perform at your best, no matter your sport. Concussion Center specialists provide coordinated care and rehabilitation services to help people recover more quickly and completely. NYU Langone certified athletic trainers provide services to area youth, high school, college, university, and professional teams as well as dance and performing arts groups. Learn more about these services To make an appointment with a member of the Sports Health team, please call . If you know the specialist or specific doctor you wish to see, you may directly with them. Our multidisciplinary team of experts specialize in caring for athletes and other active people. Laith M. Jazrawi Dennis A. Cardone Michael J. Alaia Sports Orthopedic Surgeon Milan R. Amin Laryngologist MA Matthew Apicella Sports Medicine Specialist Aaron Arredondo Emergency Medicine Doctor April M. Bailey-Maletta DPM Podiatrist Erin M. Banta Allergist Elise C. Bixby Pediatric Orthopedic Surgeon Eric E. Bondarsky Lauren E. Borowski Joseph Bosco III Jolan Browne PT, DPT Physical Therapist Reed Caldwell Abigail L. Campbell Kirk A. Campbell Brianne E. Carroll PT Alfred Castillo Abraham Chachoua John F. Charitable View All 172 Doctors & 172 Related Centers and Programs Center for Regenerative Orthopedic Medicine Our experts offer the latest evidence-backed biologic therapies for musculoskeletal conditions and injuries. We tailor care to the specific health and performance needs of women athletes of all ages. We offer interdisciplinary, patient-centered care to young people with sports injuries. Our expert team provides the medical and rehabilitation support you need to recover from a head injury. Harkness Center for Dance Injuries We provide affordable medical and preventive care to dancers. Our orthopedic surgeons and sports medicine doctors can help you recover when you’ve been sidelined by injury. Whether you’re an amateur or a professional athlete, we can help you bring your A game. Sport-Specific Centers and Programs Golf Lab Hockey Center Running Performance Programs Basketball Star Celebrates National Physical Therapy Month Five Fitness Trends to Help You Get a Fit & Healthy Body What Is Pickleball & Do You Get a Real Workout Playing It? How a Video Doctor Visit Helped an Injured Figure Skater How an Avid Cyclist Got Back to Pain-Free Riding Fixing a Weight Lifter’s Persistent Shoulder & Knee Pain Meniscus Transplant Helps Busy Mom Get Active Again How Surgery & Physical Therapy Helped a Yoga Fan’s Symptoms How a Fire Captain & Triathlete Got His Life Back Sports Cardiology Services NYU Langone sports cardiologists are leaders in cardiovascular care who have extensive training and experience diagnosing and treating a wide range of heart symptoms and conditions in athletes and active people of all ages. Our aim is to provide the highest level of cardiovascular care to help you maintain your heart health and stay in the game, no matter what your sport. Cardiac Care for Athletes We provide specialized care for athletes with heart conditions including scarring and weakness of the heart muscle, irregular heart rhythms such as supraventricular ; atherosclerosis; and heart valve disease. Our pediatric cardiologists, part of , care for children and adolescents with congenital heart disease. We provide the most advanced medical and surgical treatments for these cardiovascular conditions, as well as sport-specific guidance and expertise to help you maintain fitness and train and compete safely. Our team of cardiologists have the skill and expertise to care for every athlete’s heart health. For people who are predisposed to developing a heart condition, including athletes who have or high cholesterol or other , we provide comprehensive diagnostic testing, including cardiopulmonary exercise tests and stress echocardiography, which help doctors accurately evaluate your risk, rule out other conditions, and guide training recommendations. We then use the latest evidence-based treatments, lifestyle recommendations, nutrition advice, and support to help protect you from developing heart disease while also enabling you to participate fully in your chosen sport or activity. We refer people with —a genetic condition that can cause thickening of the heart muscle—to specialists at NYU Langone’s , who are renowned for their expertise and skill in caring for people with this genetic condition. Cardiovascular Rehabilitation Members of our cardiovascular rehabilitation team, part of , have expertise in caring for athletes who have experienced a heart attack, are recovering from another heart condition or procedure, or who have . They create a treatment plan tailored to your needs and work with you throughout your recovery so that you can return to your sport safely. Education and Resources for Heart Health Our sports cardiologists participate in educational events and provide information and resources to help you maintain heart health and optimize your athletic performance. Learn more about our Our Sports Cardiology Experts NYU Langone sports cardiologists, cardiothoracic surgeons, and cardiovascular rehabilitation specialists are leaders in the field. Robert J. Cerfolio, MD, MBA Thoracic Surgery View Profile Sean P. Heffron, MD Cardiology, Preventive Cardiology Pediatric & Adult Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery, Pediatric Cardiac Surgery Lawrence Phillips, MD Cardiology, Nuclear Cardiology Pediatric Cardiology, Cardiac Electrophysiology Jonathan H. Whiteson, MD Cardiopulmonary Rehabilitation We have several locations in Manhattan. 844-698-8832 Doctors from NYU Langone’s Venous Thromboembolic Center provide immediate and life-saving treatment for people who develop blood clots in their veins, a condition called venous thrombosis, as well as follow-up care for those at risk of this serious condition. Blood clots can develop after surgery or injury, during , or as a result of an underlying disease, such as cancer, , or COVID-19. Deep vein thrombosis occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein, usually in the leg. If left untreated, a clot can break loose and travel through the bloodstream to the lungs, which can lead to a life-threatening condition known as Our rapid response team provides timely, efficient treatment for people with blood clots who come into the . We also closely monitor all patients at who are receiving treatment for blood clots, and offer follow-up care after discharge from the hospital or emergency department. Treatment can include medications to thin the blood and break up clots, and surgery to remove or dissolve a clot. Surgeries take place at Kimmel Pavilion, which is equipped to allow traditional surgery and image-guided transcatheter procedures to happen simultaneously and in one place. This allows us to safely treat the most complex blood clots and limits the need for multiple surgeries, allowing people to go home more quickly and experience a faster recovery. Our team includes experts in cardiology, critical care, emergency medicine, interventional radiology, maternal–fetal medicine, neurosurgery, and vascular surgery. After treatment, our team provides follow-up care to help prevent future blood clots. Our doctors are leaders in advancing the understanding of venous thromboembolism and in into the latest treatments. This gives our patients access to therapies currently only available through clinical trials. It also helps us develop new techniques for preventing blood clots, such as understanding the factors that increase a person’s risk. We are also working on developing a blood test that will assess a person’s risk for future clots. Our experts provide emergency treatment and medical and surgical treatment of blood clots. Medical Director Christopher G. Caspers Hersh Chandarana Ezra E. Dweck Sean M. Farquharson David L. Green Hematologist Katherine Hochman Hospitalist James Horowitz Kenneth B. Hymes Catherine Jamin 22 Affiliated Programs and Resources We offer minimally invasive vein treatments performed by expertly trained surgeons. Venous Thromboembolic Center Educational Videos We provide training to help medical professionals diagnose and treat patients experiencing deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Watch Our Educational Videos First-of-Its-Kind Center to Treat Blood Clots Opens To save time and get the most out of your genetic evaluation at NYU Langone’s Clinical Genetic Services, please provide us with your medical records and any prior genetic evaluations before your first appointment. Please also send a detailed family history, but don’t worry if you are missing some information. Please mail the information to Clinical Genetic Services, 145 East 32nd Street, 14th Floor (PH), New York, NY 10016; or fax it to us at 646-754-2250 Patients Who Are Children Please provide any records of prior medical and developmental evaluations so that we can be better prepared to address your child’s individual issues. Make a list of any questions you have and also ask your child’s physicians to send us any questions. Adult Patients Please call us at before your appointment in order to find out what records to provide. We review all medical records specific to the referral for your genetic evaluation, such as family history information, pathology, or prior test results for yourself or an affected family member. If you or your family member has had testing for cancer predisposition, please bring that report as well. 212-598-6137 NYU Langone’s Bone Healing Center is dedicated to providing a collaborative team approach to the evaluation and treatment of bone problems of all kinds, including complex fractures and bone infections We are pioneering new technologies and procedures to help people facing a long and difficult recovery because of problems such as complex fracture reconstruction or difficulties with fracture healing. For example, we have been at the forefront of studying bone stimulating medications (Teraperitide) as a treatment for bone repair, such as fractures due to . We have also researched Bone Morphogenic Proteins (BMP) on human tissue—growth factors created in the laboratory and placed during surgery to help bones heal better. The Bone Healing Center cares for stress fractures and insufficiency fractures—a type of stress fracture caused by normal stress, such as walking on a weakened bone—osteoporosis, and fragility fractures. We also specialize in bone issues that include bisphosphonate (atypical) fractures, or fractures that may be linked to long-term use of this and other osteoporosis drugs; bone infections; bones that are not healing properly or are slow to heal; limb length discrepancies, or short or long limbs; and metabolic bone disorders that lead to weakened bones, such as premature menopause, thyroid dysfunction, hypogonadism, softening of the bones caused by a vitamin D deficiency, hyperparathyroidism , Paget’s diseases of the bone, and hypercalcemia, in which high calcium levels can weaken bones. Procedures and treatment options we offer include: bone grafts diagnostic testing, such as CT, MRI, nuclear scans, and DEXA scans, an X-ray used to check bone density electronic bone stimulation, a noninvasive therapy that applies low electrical current to the fracture site to help speed bone growth the Ilizarov method, a series of techniques used to help lengthen limbs of different lengths or to reconstruct bone deformities nonunion repair for fractures that aren’t healing quickly or at all osteoporosis therapy platelet rich plasma therapy, which uses a concentrated amount of platelets from your own blood to maximize healing stem cell treatments Taylor spatial frame, a medical device using external wires and rods that attach to the bone to heal complex fractures and deformities ultrasound therapy that uses low-intensity pulsed ultrasound to speed bone healing For new patients, please view our . You can contact us at . Our fax number is 212-598-6015 Our specialists work together as a team to diagnose and plan the best treatment strategy for each patient. Kenneth A. Egol Gregory Chang Musculoskeletal Imaging Specialist Sanjit R. Konda Orthopedic Trauma Surgeon Philipp Leucht Leon D. Rybak Nirmal C. Tejwani Joint Preservation & Arthritis Center We have doctors located in Manhattan. 855-777-7863 Joint Preservation Treatments Joint Preservation Registry of the Knee The Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center at is dedicated to advancing conservative treatment of joint-related problems and to providing personalized approaches to prolong the health of your joints. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 10 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics, rheumatology, and rehabilitation. Our goal is to reduce your symptoms, restore joint function, and delay the onset of degenerative arthritis in active people as well as in individuals who want to explore less-invasive alternatives to joint replacement. As a patient at the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, your care is followed throughout the course of your condition. Careful monitoring of your progress is vital to pinpointing the right treatment for each person’s specific problem, and to determining when to consider the next step in the treatment process. Whether you have injured your anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) and are considering ACL reconstruction, injured your cartilage and are contemplating cartilage replacement, or if you have a longstanding history of knee osteoarthritis and are considering total knee replacement, our physicians discuss surgical and nonsurgical options with you, and our recommendations may change as we follow you over time. We offer a combination of diagnostic and treatment approaches, including: specialized imaging, to inform diagnosis and personalized management biomarker and patient-reported outcome analysis to further customize management the latest surgical and nonsurgical techniques customized physical therapy regimens Our experts include specialists from sports medicine, rheumatology, physical medicine and rehabilitation, radiology, adult orthopedic joint reconstruction, and physical therapy. At the Joint Preservation and Arthritis Center, we perform clinical studies through NYU Langone’s Musculoskeletal Research Center . Through the Joint Preservation Partnership, we are customizing arthritis care for each patient. Our research program is led by Philip Band, PhD The Joint Preservation Partnership is a program designed to create a lifelong initiative for the management of arthritic conditions, and to maintain joint function in active individuals, regardless of their age. It unites experts within NYU Langone and beyond in studying, educating, treating, and promoting the preservation of joint function through individualized treatment for each patient. Dr. Jonathan Samuels treats a patient. To accomplish this, we are using advanced imaging techniques, biomarkers, and therapies intended to modify the disease process. The unifying goal of the Joint Preservation Partnership is to develop tools for identifying the most appropriate treatment for individual patients at each stage of arthritic disease. By improving arthritis treatment one patient at a time, the Joint Preservation Partnership aims to reduce the overall medical and socioeconomic burden of arthritis. Currently, more than 100 ongoing clinical studies are evaluating new approaches to the treatment of musculoskeletal disease. Collaborations across specialties enable physical therapy techniques, medications, injectable agents, and new surgical techniques to be compared, and properly used to address each patient’s specific problem. Biomarkers are being studied to determine an individual patient’s risk of disease progression, to identify the most appropriate treatment for each patient’s specific problem, and to monitor response to treatment. Useful biomarkers have been found in blood, from advanced MRI scans, and from synovial fluid—the fluid that lubricates and cushions joints. Our researchers have also implemented internet-based systems to foster better communication between patients and clinicians, and as tools to study the comparative effectiveness of alternative treatment strategies. Our skilled physicians provide specialized care for the treatment of conditions of the knee, hip, and shoulder. Jonathan Samuels Natalie E. Azar Rheumatologist Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas Soterios Gyftopoulos Claudette M. Lajam Hip & Knee Reconstruction Specialist Robert J. Meislin Alex Moroz Catherine N. Petchprapa Paula J. Rackoff Michael P. Recht Soumya M. Reddy Andrew S. Rokito Shoulder & Elbow Surgeon Ran Schwarzkopf Mehul R. Shah Eric J. Strauss Roy I. Davidovitch Full & Partial Knee Replacements: ‘The Bone Whisperers’ We have locations in Manhattan and on Long Island. Cardiac surgeons from specialize in that uses innovative techniques to restore blood flow through significantly diseased arteries. We are a recognized leader in coronary artery bypass graft procedures and have earned from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons a three-star rating, the highest rating possible. This reflects our patient-centered approach to care before, during, and after surgery, and how well our patients do after the procedure. A Unique Surgical Approach When minimally invasive techniques such as percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting are not enough to restore healthy blood flow to the heart, coronary artery bypass graft surgery may be recommended. This lifesaving procedure is often used to treat or prevent a heart attack. Coronary artery bypass surgery uses vessels from another part of the body to create a bypass around a blockage. For most people, coronary artery bypass graft surgery starts with an incision through the sternum, or breastbone, to access the heart—a procedure called open heart surgery. This approach is used when more than one artery needs a bypass—a double, triple, or quadruple bypass. At NYU Langone, our surgical treatment plans aim to open all blocked arteries during one procedure, a process called complete revascularization. This approach can significantly reduce the risk of future heart attack and may reduce the need for additional procedures later on. We are also pioneers in the use of arteries to create bypasses. Traditional coronary artery bypass graft surgery uses a vein to create a bypass. NYU Langone surgeons specialize in a more complex approach that uses arteries, which are more durable and provide longer-lasting results than vein bypasses, to create new blood pathways to the heart. More than 70 percent of the multiple coronary artery bypass grafts performed at NYU Langone use arterial grafts, a rate that is much higher than the national average of 15 percent, as reported by the Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Our surgical excellence and high safety standards often result in patients able to get up and walk within hours of surgery, and be back at home after two days of in-hospital monitoring. We know that people are more comfortable recovering at home, and the sooner people can go home, the quicker their overall recovery will be. For people who need only one bypass, we offer robotic-assisted coronary artery bypass graft surgery . This minimally invasive approach does not require opening the breastbone and instead is performed by positioning surgical tools through small incisions placed between the ribs in the left side of the chest. Most people leave the hospital after one to three days. Our surgeons perform more than 500 coronary artery bypass procedures per year at NYU Langone in Manhattan and in Mineola. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery can be performed along with heart valve surgery—to repair or replace damaged aortic mitral valves —and coronary stenting, to open arteries that do not require a bypass. Coronary Artery Bypass Graft for People with Heart Failure NYU Langone offers innovative treatment that combines a temporary transvalvular ventricular assist device with a coronary artery bypass graft for people who have been told that they are not candidates for surgical treatment at other hospitals due to the severity of their illness. It may allow people who have been told they need a to delay the procedure or avoid it altogether. This treatment is for people with advanced whose hearts are working at 25 percent of capacity or less. The surgeon performs the bypass, and then a second procedure is done to place a temporary ventricular assist device that takes over the pumping activity of the heart. The pump is left in place for up to 10 days, giving the heart a chance to heal from the bypass and recover function. After the pump is removed, in a bedside procedure, patients often experience increased heart function and symptom relief. Heart Bypass Surgery Recovery and Support If our patients need cardiac rehabilitation after heart bypass surgery, they are referred through NYU Langone’s . We can also connect you with programs and services that help reverse heart disease, including the Heart Healthy Nutrition Program and Exercise Physiology Program. Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is performed by our highly skilled team of cardiothoracic surgeons. Khaled F. Salhab Mikhail Vaynblat 8 Related Programs and Centers Our heart specialists provide the highest-quality of care for all cardiac conditions. We help people reduce their risk of heart disease and stroke. Our Surgical Locations NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Garden City 1300 Franklin Avenue, Suite ML2, Garden City, NY, 11530 NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Suite 10P 530 First Avenue, Suite 10P, New York, NY, 10016 NYU Langone Cardiothoracic Surgery Associates—Suite 9V 530 First Avenue, Suite 9V, New York, NY, 10016 Brooklyn Heart Patient Saves Own Life amid COVID-19 Diabetic Foot & Ankle Center 212-598-2378 212-598-6317 Living with does not have to mean living with constant diabetic foot and ankle problems, including diabetic foot ulcers , and NYU Langone’s Diabetic Foot and Ankle Center can help. Our goal is to keep foot and ankle problems from reoccurring—or preventing them from happening in the first place. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 5 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics and rehabilitation. Our program, part of , is unique in that our team includes a broad range of specialists who collaborate to provide you with the best prevention or treatment plan for your circumstances. When you visit us, you receive a full evaluation by our team. We specialize in diabetic wounds, deformities, Charcot neuroarthropathy , and bone infections, known as osteomyelitis. We offer our patients the most up-to-date treatment and a full spectrum of services, including: diabetes education diagnostic testing and radiology foot and ankle procedures options to participate in clinical trials for qualifying patients orthotics, or shoe inserts physical therapy and rehabilitation podiatry services prosthetics wound care Our dedicated medical professionals provide the most advanced treatment and specialized care for foot and ankle problems and complications in people with diabetes. Fejzo Cecunjanin Aaron R. Chidakel Nabil M. Fahim James Johnson Steven Sheskier Foot & Ankle Surgeon We provide care to thousands of patients each year—from infants to seniors—who have the simplest orthopedic conditions to the most complex. Our specialists treat people who have a wide range of bone issues, including stress fractures, deformities, and infections. We offer compassionate care for people experiencing chronic wounds in a convenient midtown Manhattan location. 212-263-7582 212-263-6351 Experts at NYU Langone’s Hand Center provide complete care for conditions and injuries of the upper extremities, such as your shoulder, thumb and fingers, wrist, elbow, and hand. U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Our specialists are available to diagnose the entire spectrum of upper extremity problems, whether you need an evaluation or second opinion. We offer physical therapy, minimally invasive arthroscopic wrist and shoulder surgery, and reconstructive hand surgery. We treat a variety of conditions, including: acquired conditions , such as trigger finger and other acute and chronic ligament injuries, including sprains and strains involving the thumb and fingers, wrist, and elbow acute and chronic nerve compressions, such as or cubital tunnel syndrome acute and chronic tendon and nerve injuries arthritic conditions, including , and gout congenital and spastic deformities Dupuytren’s contracture fractures dislocations involving the thumb and fingers, hand, wrist, and elbow sports related injuries tumors and tumor-like masses, such as ganglion cysts We provide a variety of procedures, including custom splint fabrication, in which a certified hand therapist makes a molded splint to precisely fit your hand and your specific issue; reconstructive surgery for chronic posttraumatic problems, such as tendon transfers for nerve palsies; state-of-the-art arthroscopic surgery for any part of the arm or hand; joint replacements, including small finger joints and elbow joints; and collagenase injections for Dupuytren's contracture. Our goal is to make your visit to the Hand Center an efficient and pleasant experience and to successfully treat your musculoskeletal condition or injury. Please call to make an appointment or for more information. Our board-certified, fellowship-trained hand and upper extremity specialists evaluate and treat thousands of people each year, from infants to seniors. Omri B. Ayalon Hand & Wrist Surgeon Jadie E. De Tolla Stuart Elkowitz Jacques H. Hacquebord Nader Paksima DO, MPH Michael E. Rettig S. Steven Yang RZ Robert Zbeda Our physicians have pioneered a range of treatments that have improved the lives of people with musculoskeletal and neurological disorders. We offer expert treatment for a wide range of bone and joint conditions with unprecedented attention to patient comfort and convenience. NYU Langone Outpatient Surgery Center Our center specializes in same-day orthopedic surgery and is committed to providing the highest quality care in a comfortable environment. Download and complete our new patient questionnaire. Wide Awake Hand Surgery Becoming More Common Limb Salvage & Restoration Center 212-263-4325 Certain medical conditions, including , venous disease, and , can lead to serious conditions that affect the limbs, particularly the legs and feet. When this happens, highly specialized medical and surgical care is often needed to avoid amputation and preserve quality of life. At NYU Langone’s Limb Salvage and Restoration Center, our specialists use advanced techniques to restore healthy blood flow, promote healing, and prevent limb loss. This includes minimally invasive and surgical approaches to improve circulation and blood flow to the affected limb. We also provide the newest wound-healing treatments and offer clinical trials for promising therapies. Your treatment is coordinated by a team that includes experts in vascular surgery, wound care, podiatry, , infectious diseases, and rehabilitation. Our goal is to provide you with coordinated care that is focused on healing the source of illness and preventing limb loss whenever possible. If after considering all other treatment options, amputation is required, we use surgical techniques to preserve limb function and achieve the best possible performance with prosthetic devices. Arterial Treatment For people with peripheral arterial disease, our vascular surgeons use minimally invasive surgical techniques to remove blockages affecting blood flow to the limbs. This includes atherectomy to remove plaque that is blocking an artery, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open a narrowed or clogged artery. Our vascular surgeons also perform arterial bypass to reroute blood around the blockage. In some cases, treatment involves a combination of these techniques. Vein Treatment When blood flow back to the heart is blocked due to chronic venous insufficiency , blood can start to pool in the legs. This can cause blood clots, pain, itching, and leg sores. Treatment may involve a combination of procedures to eliminate venous reflux caused by leaky valves that allow blood to flow in both directions, and procedures to open blocked deep veins. This includes heat-based therapies, such as laser and radiofrequency, as well as nonthermal therapies, such as special glue or foam, to treat problematic surface veins. It also includes treatments to remove blood clots, and balloon angioplasty and stenting to open blocked deep veins. Wound Healing We work with experts from the to provide comprehensive and advanced wound care. This includes advanced dermal products that help close wounds; total contact casting, which encases the wound and keeps weight off the foot as it heals; hyperbaric oxygen therapy, which delivers concentrated oxygen to the wound; and plastic surgery reconstruction to remove diseased bone or tissue. Foot Care Our podiatrists are experts in the medical and surgical management of the foot. We provide debridement to remove diseased tissue and help foot ulcers heal. When amputation is needed, we first aim to restore health to as much tissue as possible to limit the scope of the surgery. Limb Restoration Techniques When amputation is the best treatment option, our surgical team uses advanced techniques to preserve as much of the limb as possible. Working with our prosthetics experts, we develop a surgical plan that preserves nerve function and restores function with the use of the most technologically advanced prosthetic devices. Following surgery, we refer you for care in the limb loss rehabilitation program Our doctors specialize in infectious disease, orthopedic rehabilitation, plastic surgery, podiatry, vascular surgery, and wound care. Ernest S. Chiu Plastic Surgeon Jason Kim Jeffrey V. Lucido Frank L. Ross Wound Care Specialist Joseph O. Rahimian Infectious Disease Specialist Our Affiliated Programs & Centers NYU Langone Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Associates Our vascular and endovascular surgery team is one of the largest in the country. Learn More About Our Vascular and Endovascular Surgeons Our team includes physical therapists, occupational therapists, and experts in limb loss rehabilitation. Learn More About Rusk Rehabilitation We specialized in advanced care for nonhealing wounds. Learn More About the Hyperbaric and Advanced Wound Healing Center Sports Performance Testing & Programs Health & Fitness Testing & Programs Our health and fitness programs, which include personal training, can help you improve your stamina and teach you how to maximize your fitness potential. We offer weight-loss tests and programs that complement the services offered at NYU Langone’s Experts at our Sports Performance Center also offer sports performance testing , training, and special programs for runners Health and Fitness Evaluation The health and fitness evaluation is designed for people of all ages and fitness levels who wish to obtain a baseline understanding of their current health and fitness status, with the goal of preventing disease and improving health, fitness, and quality of life. The evaluation includes the following: heart rate and blood pressure measurements body fat analysis aerobic capacity test measuring oxygen consumption (VO2max or submax test is given based on the person’s health) assessment of strength and flexibility using FMS™ Based on information gathered during the evaluation, our specialists provide exercise prescriptions to improve health and fitness concerns identified during evaluation. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. To register, please email SportsPerformanceCenter@NYULangone.org Duration: 90 minutes Change for Menopause Program is designed to provide participants experiencing perimenopause or menopause with tools to build resilience, tackle obstacles, and improve lifestyle behaviors. Designed by a clinical exercise physiologist and registered dietitian, the classes address such topics as motivation, setting realistic goals, and the various ways that diet and activity can affect the symptoms many women experience as they progress through menopause. In six weekly sessions, participants gather to learn, discuss, and develop strategies to improve their daily lives. Topics include the following: strengths to rely on and obstacles to overcome the science and rationale for using resistance training to improve metabolism and bone health why protein matters and how you can ensure you get the amount you need each day how to balance exercise with our daily priorities how anti-inflammation, gut health, and carbohydrates are connected sleep, stress, and strategies to overcome challenges For questions or to register, please contact Duration: 45 minutes Learn more about receiving treatment and support for menopause from a healthcare provider at the Personal Training Our registered exercise physiologists work with people who have a wide variety of fitness levels, ranging from the novice exerciser to seasoned athletes striving to reach peak performance. Personal training sessions include one-on-one time with our physiologist, who designs a program that meets your specific needs and fitness goals. We offer 30- or 60-minute single sessions or packages of up to 16 sessions. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Functional Movement Screen The Functional Movement Screen™, or FMS™, is a series of seven movements designed to identify asymmetries and muscular imbalances, weaknesses, and dysfunctional movements that could increase your risk for injury. We use the results of an FMS™ to create recommendations to help reduce injury and improve performance. Movements tested are dependent on the person’s fitness level or characteristics of the athlete’s sport. To register, please email Duration: 60 minutes Clinical Nutritional Assessments Whether the focus is on losing weight, managing diabetes, or fighting fatigue, our registered dietitians can help you achieve your personal goals. Our registered dietitians analyze your diet to create a personalized food plan aimed at optimizing health and performance. Nutrient timing, meal composition, portions, menus, recipes, and practical suggestions are crafted to meet each person’s unique needs. Registered dietitians also work closely with you to monitor and update nutrient and diet recommendations. Duration of nutrition assessment: 60 minutes Duration of nutrition follow-up: 30 or 60 minutes For questions regarding insurance coverage, please email Total Body Wellness Classes for Active Older Adults This program for adults age 60 and older focuses on strength, flexibility, and cardiovascular fitness. It is ideal for those who wish to continue progress after physical or occupational therapy or for anyone considering a new fitness routine. This test may be recommended as part of your treatment plan through NYU Langone’s Weight Management Program. Heart Rhythm Disorder Treatment More Than 30 Years’ Experience For decades, we have been a leader in the care of heart rhythm disorders in New York City. High-Volume Arrhythmia Center We provide treatment for more than 4,500 people each year who experience irregular heartbeat. The doctors at NYU Langone’s Heart Rhythm Center have an international reputation as leaders in the diagnosis and advanced treatment of virtually every type of heart rhythm disorder bradycardia , genetic heart rhythm disorders, , and other conditions that affect the heart’s electrical activity. VIDEO: Doctors at the Heart Rhythm Center use the latest medical treatments to provide advanced care for people with all forms of arrhythmia. Our team includes board-certified cardiac electrophysiologists, who are doctors that treat conditions that cause the heart to beat too fast, too slow, or in an irregular pattern. They are joined by specially trained nurse practitioners and physician assistants who provide all of the care you need, from the initial consultation to treatment and, for some people, long-term cardiac device monitoring and follow up. Our staff is available around the clock to answer your questions and respond to your needs. Heart Rhythm Disorder Care For more than 30 years, we have treated people who have some of the most difficult and complex heart rhythm disorders, and who are often referred to us by other hospitals. Ours is one of the highest-volume arrhythmia centers in the country, and research shows that centers that treat the most patients have the best outcomes. “Everyone is there for you before and after treatment. They sit with you, talk with you, and try to take care of you in the best way possible.” Diane, Age 70 Read Our Heart Rhythm Disorder Patient Stories We are leaders in the use of catheter ablation to treat AFib . We are at the forefront of innovations in heart rhythm treatment , including the leadless pacemaker and left atrial appendage occlusion device, such as WATCHMAN, a permanent heart implant that reduces the risk of stroke for people with nonvalvular AFib who cannot take blood-thinning medication. We are also home to the , through which specialized care is provided for people who have inherited arrhythmias such as Brugada syndrome, long QT syndrome, and inherited cardiomyopathy. We collaborate with echocardiologists, radiologists, cardiac interventionalists, heart failure specialists, cardiovascular surgeons, and basic and clinical scientists to develop treatment plans tailored to the specific needs of each of our patients. Advancing Arrhythmia Care Our doctors have developed innovative treatments for atrial fibrillation and are actively involved in ongoing research. Learn About Our Heart Rhythm Research Cardiac Device Management Our team provides ongoing care and monitoring for people with cardiac devices that regulate heartbeat, including pacemakers and implantable cardioverter defibrillators . We manage and evaluate devices that use cardiac leads to connect to the heart. If leads need to be removed, our experienced team uses the most advanced imaging technology available in our state-of-the-art hybrid operating rooms to ensure the highest level of safety during the lead extraction procedure The Heart Rhythm Center has an international reputation as a training center and quality care model for medical professionals and caregivers. Our main Heart Rhythm Center location is at 530 First Avenue on the sixth floor in Manhattan, and procedures are performed at Additional members of our electrophysiology team are available at the following locations, where they also provide consultation, diagnosis, and treatment for heart rhythm disorders: Heart Rhythm Center—Brooklyn , located at Heart Rhythm Center—Long Island Our doctors specialize in catheter