bariatric surgeons use the most advanced techniques and minimally invasive approaches to treat people with . Our team has expertise in the following bariatric procedures: sleeve gastrectomy gastric bypass surgery revision surgery Our Team of Robotic Surgery Specialists The following NYU Langone surgeons use robotic surgery techniques to treat obesity. Alexandra L. Argiroff, MD Collin E. Brathwaite, MD Fareed Cheema, MD Gloria B. Chu, MD George S. Ferzli, MD Megan Jenkins, MD Venkata K. Kella, MD Jun L. Levine, MD Owen Pyke, MD Christine J. Ren-Fielding, MD Bradley F. Schwack, MD Loic S. Tchokouani, MD Akuezunkpa O. Ude Welcome, MD COVID-19 Testing We offer diagnostic and antibody testing for COVID-19. COVID-19 Testing for Children If you are concerned you may have COVID-19 or want to find out if you had the virus, NYU Langone offers diagnostic and antibody testing through our laboratories. COVID-19 Update Our doctors are available for in-person appointments. If you have questions about whether an office appointment or video visit is the best option for you, please call your doctor’s office. Learn More About Our Safety Measures We also provide COVID-19 diagnostic testing for children . This includes a rapid COVID-19 test, also known as an antigen test, that provides results within 20 minutes and is available at select NYU Langone locations. COVID-19 Diagnostic Testing If you have COVID-19 symptoms—including fever, cough, shortness of breath, chills, muscle pain, headache, sore throat, or new loss of taste or smell—you can schedule a video visit with your NYU Langone doctor to discuss your symptoms and potentially receive a COVID-19 diagnostic test. You can also schedule a visit to have one of our care providers order the test for you. After you complete your visit, your doctor orders the test, and you can then schedule at one of our testing centers through your account. Our testing centers are located at select outpatient locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. Please schedule an appointment in order to be tested. Walk-ins are not accepted. For minor medical concerns that need care today, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care video visit to video chat with an NYU Langone Health provider. Schedule a Visit During a test, a clinician uses a nasal swab to take a fluid sample from deep inside your nose. PCR testing detects viral genetic material if it is present in your sample. If you receive your test from NYU Langone, then results are available within one to two business days in your NYU Langone MyChart account, or by calling your doctor’s office. COVID-19 Antibody Testing An antibody test can help determine if you were previously infected with COVID-19 or have produced antibodies after COVID-19 vaccination. The test is conducted by drawing a small amount of blood, which is analyzed for the presence of antibodies—specific proteins made by the immune system in response to an infection or vaccination. An antibody test does not detect the virus itself and is not used to diagnose a current COVID-19 infection. There are many types of antibody tests available, and it is important to know which test should be ordered. These tests look for antibodies to specific virus proteins. If a person has received a COVID-19 vaccine containing the spike (S) protein but has not been infected with the virus, they would have antibodies to only the S protein. If they were infected with the virus, they would have antibodies to the S protein and another called the nucleoprotein, or N. Our laboratory offers tests for antibodies to the S and N proteins. It is not known at this time if having antibodies means a person is immune to the virus, or for how long they may be immune. Not having antibodies does not mean a person was never infected or exposed to the virus. Schedule appointments, access your medical records, and more by logging in to the NYU Langone Health App with your MyChart account. Learn More About the NYU Langone Health App Video visits let you video chat with your care provider from home or wherever is convenient for you. Learn More About Video Doctor Visits If you need to see a doctor right away, schedule a Virtual Urgent Care video visit. Learn More About Virtual Urgent Care Are At-Home COVID-19 Tests Accurate? What Parents Need to Know About the COVID-19 Delta Variant Tips on How to Travel Safely After Getting Vaccinated As COVID Cases Climb, NYU Langone Leads the Way in Testing When Your Child Should Stay Home from Daycare What Parents Should Know About COVID-19 Testing for Kids Maximize your impact with a matching gift. One Gift, Double the Impact Many organizations offer matching gift programs to encourage philanthropy. By taking advantage of this program, you can double the impact of your donation to NYU Langone Health. For most companies, it’s as easy as completing an online or paper form and returning it to NYU Langone. We will confirm your gift and send the necessary paperwork directly to your company. Follow these three easy steps to match your gift Step 1: Once you make a donation to NYU Langone, search our database to see if your company offers a matching gift program. Step 2: Follow the instructions found in our search tool to apply for your company’s matching gift. If you can’t find your company through our search tool, check with your human resources department to find out if your company offers a matching gift program for NYU Langone Health or email our team at Step 3: Send the completed forms to us or submit the necessary information through your company’s portal (if available). Attn: Matching Gifts, Office of Development One Park Avenue, Floor 5 Every Gift Matters Make a flexible gift that we can apply where the need is greatest, and help us continue to transform health in our local communities and around the world. Or find a cause to support. Causes: Keywords: Search Results By: A Lasting Legacy: The Stephen E. Banner Fund Learn more and give to the Stephen E. Banner Fund for Lung Cancer Research. Alzheimer’s Disease Center Help us work toward better treatment options and care for those affected by Alzheimer’s disease. Beatrice W. Welters Breast Outreach and Navigation Program Help medically underserved women access breast cancer screening, diagnosis, treatment, and support services. Breast Cancer Research Drive lifesaving breakthroughs in breast cancer research. Drive progress in research and patient care in cardiology. Center for Amputation Reconstruction Provide specialized care to people with limb loss. COVID-19 Research and Patient Care Drive breakthroughs in COVID-19 research and support the patients who need it most. Diabetes Research and Care Join us in helping patients manage diabetes through integrated care and research. Drive Breakthroughs in Neurology Drive breakthroughs in neurology at NYU Langone. Support the Stephen E. Banner Fund For Lung Cancer Research Accelerate lung cancer research. The strength and resilience of the NYU Grossman School of Medicine community propels us forward. Give Today to Support the Doctors of Tomorrow Help tomorrow's outstanding students make a difference through medicine. Support Scholarships Help Fund Our Greatest Areas of Need Flexible gifts help us continue to develop key programs and initiatives. Donate Today Honor Your Class With a Gift Today Make a Reunion gift today in honor and celebration of your class. Make a Reunion Gift Show Your Alumni Spirit Visit our new brand store. Shop now Since graduating from NYU in 2008, I've looked for opportunities to pay it forward to the next generation. R. James Toussaint ‘08 President, Alumni Association Driving the Education Revolution Novel technologies and big data enhance medical practice and education at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. We're Here to Help Contact us with any questions about giving to NYU Grossman School of Medicine. Support NYU Langone School of Medicine There are many ways to make an impact to advance patient care, medical research, and education. Wire and Securities Transfers Make a gift today by transferring assets to NYU Langone. You can transfer funds from your bank account via a wire transfer and also transfer securities, including stocks, bonds, and mutual fund shares. Donate Stocks and Other Securities Donate by Wire Transfer To transfer funds electronically from your bank account to NYU Langone Health or NYU Grossman School of Medicine, complete the Give by Phone or Mail One Park Avenue, 9th Floor Gifts of Cash or Cash Equivalents Donor Advised Fund IRA Charitable Rollover Gifts or Qualified Charitable Distributions (QCD) If you are 70½ or older, you can donate up to $105,000 per tax year from your individual retirement account (IRA) directly to NYU Langone Health. For more information, please contact your IRA administrator or contact us at 212-404-3681 Gifts-in-Kind A gift-in-kind (GIK) is a non-cash donation and NYU Langone Health is able to accept certain types of GIKs. Common examples include supplies, toys and books. Please contact us at to inquire whether we’re able to accept your specific gift. Galvanize your team. Help your community. Corporate Partners Are Vital to Our Mission By sharing your time, expertise, and resources, you and your employees can make a real difference in the lives of patients and their families. NYU Langone offers exceptional opportunities for our organizations to come together and support each other. From employee volunteerism to event sponsorship, we will work with you to create the best experience for your team. Volunteer on Our Campuses Make a positive impact on our patients and their families with a tailored employee volunteer program based on your team’s skills, interests, and availability. Volunteer from Your Office Collaborate with us to craft exciting and engaging experiences at your own office or venue and support recreational and social activities for patients during their hospital stays. Employee Giving Campaign Your team can make a difference through an NYU Langone online fundraiser. Our online campaign platform makes it easy for your employees to create and manage fundraising drives that complement your company’s volunteer initiative or an NYU Langone community event. Sponsor Premier Events NYU Langone’s renowned celebrations bring together diverse communities of loyal supporters to raise awareness and critical funds for great causes. Corporate Philanthropy When it comes to charitable giving, we embrace companies’ unique interests. We can help you find the perfect philanthropic opportunity at NYU Langone. Because of Sala, teens are empowered and engaged in the design of care through the Youth Advisory Council. Share: Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Email I was 13 when I was diagnosed. There were little symptoms that were adding up. I was having headaches and I was feeling tired all the time, but I passed it off as just exhaustion because I was doing a bunch of extracurricular activities like theater and activities that would help me academically. It turned out it was cancer. I ended up at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, where I initially stayed for over a month. I’m such a family-oriented person, and the family is so close, that it affected a bunch of people. I think definitely it’s something that took a lot of getting used to. I went from being “yay, I’m independent” to “wow, I have to be dependent on all these things and all these people.” Being in the hospital, it was definitely hard, but—even though I was going through this really difficult thing—there was still a positive energy there that I would never expect to get from a hospital. I wasn’t just a patient, I was a person first—and I still had a life. If I was stuck in the room, not doing anything, there were child life specialists and music therapists coming in and doing projects with me, and all that contributed to my mental health and to making sure that I was at a good place, even if my physical health couldn’t make up for that. Sara Damour, Sala Institute Youth Advisory Council Member It really helped that the doctors spoke to me, as opposed to just my parents, because at the end of the day I felt like I was the one who was getting the treatment, I was the one who was receiving the medication, and so I should be spoken to. I’ve been in remission for three years now. For a lot of that time, I’ve been on the Youth Advisory Council—I’m one of the original members. We discuss really important things in our meetings. We teach doctors how to best build relationships with patients. And we talk about things like hospital safety and how to keep people from falling, from our own perspective. I start college soon, where I’ll study to be a social worker. I found I connected with many social workers through the Youth Advisory Council and my time working with Sala Institute. It really changed me, and I want to do that for other kids and families. Read More Inspiring Stories 4 Building a National Roadmap How Sala is leading efforts to enhance support for children with chronic illnesses. Another Form of Distance Why Alex ran to help NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island in a time of need. Alum Gives Thanks Dr. Perelman has supported the school’s scholarship fund for 26 years. Crossing Rivers, Bridging Gaps Child life specialist Frances Clemente shares her story. Teens Brighten the Holidays Teens help the teen patients at the NYU Langone Cancer Center for Kids–Mineola. Strength Emerges How one parent became an advocate for her infant daughter and family. Because of Sala, teens are engaged in the design of care. « Previous Speaking the Language of Care Gabriela Ulloa put her plans on hold to serve alongside her colleagues. Savvy Supporters Give Back Their story began when they started making bracelets. Play Is the Best Medicine Meet Zemi, a five-year-old cancer patient at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Peer Coaching for Safer Care Safety coaches share best practices for patient safety with their colleagues. A Joy Ride to Surgery Young patients take a new ride to the operating room. Advancing Health Equity Making sure that everyone has access to patient care and research. No Laughing Matter One comedian’s journey through COVID-19 double pneumonia. The Education Revolution Novel technologies and big data enhance medical practice and education. Building Resilience How Sala specialists help patients and families learn new coping skills. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is prepping practitioners and students for medicine’s tech evolution. “You get an adrenaline rush racing against the clock,” says Alicia Cowley ’15, Res.’18, MBA ’15 (STERN), about how she spent a weekend last May. Dr. Cowley didn’t run a marathon or take a timed exam, however. The hospitalist participated in New York City’s first-ever Digital Health Datathon, hosted by NYU Langone Health. The intense 48-hour competition started by defining and building the new interdisciplinary team for the digital era:  clinicians and data scientists working side by side. Colleagues from NYU Langone, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and Google worked in groups. Once the teams were established, providers posed clinical questions that the data scientists turned into computer queries on a large electronic health record (EHR) dataset. Dr. Cowley’s team asked: Do higher daily diuresis (urination) goals decrease ICU patients’ length of stay for heart failure exacerbation? “Our team broke down what the question meant and the variables that led to the diuresis goal,” Dr. Cowley explains. “Then, we came up with assumptions and criteria. The pharmacists chose patients from the dataset based on medications, and the hospitalist physicians utilized admitting diagnoses. Data scientists then wrote queries to input the values we wanted and used statistics to better determine which patients were more ill or less ill.” According to Dr. Cowley, the Datathon was a unique opportunity to develop knowledge and skills at the growing interface between technology and medicine. “I got a 10,000-foot view and started asking why we do something the way we do it, by analyzing massive amounts of patient data,” she says. Diffusing Innovation According to Sarah MacArthur, MD, Res. ’11, ’15, director of digital health innovation for Medical Center Information Technology (MCIT) and the Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science (CHIDS) at NYU Langone, the benefits Dr. Cowley reaped from the Datathon are exactly what NYU Langone aims for when exposing medical professionals and students to data science and digital health. “Physicians increasingly receive diagnosis and management suggestions from automatically triggered clinical decision support tools,” says Dr. MacArthur. “While these suggestions are often enormously helpful, it’s essential to understand how these tools are built to fully appreciate their promise and pitfalls. In medical school and residency, we’re taught how to tear apart a New England Journal of Medicine article, look at its methodology, and understand where it might be flawed—but we haven’t yet been taught how to analyze the new knowledge created by data scientists’ analyses of EHRs.” Enter events like Datathon and, immediately following that event, the NYU Langone Health Tech Symposium supported by MCIT and CHIDS. The symposium provided a survey course on artificial intelligence and machine learning in healthcare to more than 500 NYU Langone Health clinicians and medical professionals. “At NYU Langone, we’re enormously fortunate to have an abundance of national experts in healthcare delivery design, predictive analytics, and clinical informatics—most dual trained,” Dr. MacArthur notes. “How do we diffuse their knowledge and skills throughout our entire institution? We’re empowering the average physician to partner with data scientists to generate new knowledge and think about it critically.” Understanding Virtual Health The school’s commitment to teaching innovation can also be found in a two-week elective at NYU Grossman School of Medicine that exposes medical students to the burgeoning field of virtual health and empowers them to educate NYU Langone’s leadership about new ideas for potential implementation. As one of the nation’s first electives in virtual health, Telehealth—Technology Transforming Healthcare Delivery introduces undergraduate and graduate medical students to NYU Langone’s current virtual health practices, including video urgent care visits and online follow-up patient appointments for the Medical Weight Management Program. But Dr. MacArthur, who created the course, notes that its core purpose is not merely to observe; ultimately, it’s to help drive a technology-enabled redesign of healthcare delivery. “We give the learners several questions that come straight from administrative leaders, or they may choose their own question—and they present their findings and recommendations directly to hospital leaders,” she says. One such leader, Viraj Lakdawala, MD, clinical associate professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine, medical director of Virtual Urgent Care, and system chief for Emergency Medicine Telehealth at NYU Langone, recalls how his team harnessed information that virtual health elective students shared. “One of the presentations we acted upon was about determining provider competency when it comes to telemedicine visits,” he explains. “Seeing a patient via telemedicine is a much different skill set from seeing a patient in person. We are working with our colleagues in internal medicine who have expertise in using simulations with standardized patients [actors] to develop a program to measure and determine competency in certain core telemedicine skills.” In this way, the virtual health elective ends up benefiting both the student and the institution. Dr. Sarah MacArthur, Res. '11, '15, speaking at the 2019 Health Tech Symposium “The students’ efforts get embedded because they’ve worked on something that the institution would like to understand more deeply,” Dr. MacArthur says. “This is all about novel delivery design. We are driving forward and we want to create new models to generate knowledge.” Advancing the Three-Pronged Mission Although embedding innovation across NYU Langone may sound daunting, Dr. MacArthur frames it clearly through the lens of the institution’s mission. “When I give talks at digital health conferences, I note that our core tripartite mission is still to serve, teach, and discover—but we seek to reimagine it for the digital era,” she explains. “The NYU Langone virtual health program advances how we serve our patients, bringing healthcare to them where they are. The ways we’re trying to reimagine education—through programs like the Datathon, the Health Tech Symposium, and the virtual health elective—impact teaching as well as discovery, since learners create new knowledge that benefits all of us in our work.” To make sure that NYU Langone remains at the forefront of advancing technology across all three prongs of its mission, the institution and MCIT support multiple collaborative endeavors that foster a robust digital health ecosystem: The Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME) is one of the country’s largest medical education innovation groups. It applies the science of education and informatics to transform teaching, learning, evaluation, and assessment at every level of NYU Langone. CHIDS aims to improve patient outcomes by fostering the development of effective, efficient, and patient-centered learning healthcare systems at NYU Langone and nationally. The Digital Design Lab partners with researchers and clinicians to develop digital health innovations, supporting them from early ideation through product creation. NYU Health Tech Connect tracks potentially disruptive trends, technologies, and companies, channeling their assets to drive institutional objectives. While helping various constituents find their place in digital health, Dr. MacArthur also feels strongly that NYU Langone must continue to seek out the best ideas from wherever they originate. “We’re on the brink of the next golden era of medicine,” she says. “As an institution, we’ve worked very hard to build a robust technologic backbone by deploying Epic. While we lead in the nation, complacency is anathema to the NYU Langone spirit, and we have only just begun to unlock the promise that EHRs hold to generate new knowledge, care for patients, and educate. To that end, it’s critical to remain open and awake to what others can teach us, including medical students and the next generation of leaders.” Written by Sarah M. Jackson NYU Grossman School of Medicine is reimagining teaching and learning. As co-director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Educator Community within the Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME), Michael Poles ’92, Res. ’96, PhD, is uniquely positioned to support his fellow faculty and inspire them to embrace, and even help dream up, technology that enhances teaching and learning. He has been actively involved in curriculum reform and understands that NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s curriculum and education methods must respond to and help shape changing times. Dr. Poles is also assistant dean for medical education in the preclinical sciences; associate professor of medicine and of pathology, specializing in gastroenterology; and a popular teacher. He has received medical school awards for both basic science and clinical teaching, including VA Teacher of the Year in 2010 and Gastroenterology Teacher of the Year five times. Grapevine’s Deborah Schupack recently met with him to learn more about how faculty are harnessing technology to innovate in education. Q. When the newly formed IIME put out a call for faculty partners, you were one of the first to reply.  What was your interest? We deliver the vast majority of our education in the classroom, yet there was a yearning to be able to deliver more content in novel and better ways. With the immensity of medical information to teach students, it is increasingly difficult to impart to them all of the facts that they need to know as physicians. In addition, medical knowledge evolves, which makes it more important to teach them to be flexible thinkers, able to adapt to the mercurial nature of science. I became particularly interested in finding an asynchronous way of delivering key information that could supplement classroom teaching, and I turned to IIME and its precursor, the Division of Educational Informatics, to find or develop e-learning modules for this purpose. Dr. Michael Poles '92, Res. 96, co-director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine's Educator Community within the IIME We could facilitate more active learning by “flipping the classroom”—having students access foundational content at home, then engage in group discussions at a higher level in class with an instructor. This change in format promotes a deeper understanding. We believe it is important to get faculty comfortable and engaged in the process of pedagogical and curricular innovation. Most of our faculty themselves have experienced the traditional, didactic method of teaching. They sat in a classroom, people spoke to them about a medical topic, they took notes, and they studied from those notes. Now, we are asking faculty to consider other ways of delivering that content, potentially involving the use of home grown or outside resources. We are not looking to replace faculty—that’s very important to understand. Our faculty are experts in their fields and can deliver content better than any outside resource. Obviously, the primary way our students will continue to learn is from our faculty. But we can also help them by delivering top-quality resources outside the classroom, so the students enter the room with a deeper level of understanding—and we can take our education to the next level. Q. Are the faculty experiencing a culture shift? The best teachers are typically the best learners, who understand that their own education should be a continuous process. As committed lifelong learners, they are well positioned to promote that drive within our students. The best teachers also want to help others improve their teaching ability. We developed the NYU Grossman School of Medicine Educator Community to bring these inspirational faculty together to work collaboratively, push us to imagine new ways forward in education, and promote best practices. You learn about what’s being developed by others within the community to improve education and you think, “Wow, that’s amazing. I can definitely use that to teach my students or trainees.” Our faculty have all these ambitious ideas for teaching and learning that they want to bring to life. If they tap into the Educator Community, we can help them bring an amazing idea to fruition. Q. How are the IIME and the Educator Community using evidence-based innovations to continually improve teaching and learning? We believe that providing individualized performance data is the key to enhancing learner performance in both undergraduate and graduate medical education [GME], in the same way that it is being used to improve the performance of practicing physicians. In GME, we are now increasing our focus on collation of clinical practice data and delivery of that data back to the trainee to identify, in real time, where gaps in knowledge or practice exist, so that we may react more rapidly in performance improvement. The same way that there’s a continuous quality improvement, or CQI, process for everything else in the institution, there’s a CQI process for students, young doctors, and even faculty educators to help them constantly improve. I will provide an example from my specialty, gastroenterology. When we perform colorectal cancer screening using colonoscopy, it is vital that we identify and remove adenomatous colon polyps that have the potential to develop into a cancer. The data suggests that endoscopists should identify these polyps in approximately 25 to 35 percent of all screening exams. In this new world, we keep track of every fellow’s adenomatous polyp detection rate—meaning, in what percentage of patients does the fellow identify an adenomatous polyp that can potentially develop into a cancer? We’ve collected this data for 10 years now, so every fellow knows how many polyps they’re identifying—essentially, how many cancers they’re preventing—compared with the last 10 years’ worth of fellows. In real time, they can explore this, and other performance data, against expectations and against anonymized data from their peers. If they’re far lower than the norm, we can intervene immediately and identify specific steps to improve their performance and make sure they are meeting benchmarks. Just as we are using just-in-time feedback for students and trainees to improve their performance, we’ve started just-in-time evaluation of lecturers in undergraduate medical education. Before this new initiative, faculty wouldn’t get performance feedback until months after their teaching was provided, when it might no longer be relevant. Now we can deliver that performance data in real time. We can provide lecturers feedback before their next lecture in a module, so they can already be thinking about how they can deliver content better and therefore do a better job at teaching the physicians of tomorrow. The best teachers are typically the best learners, who understand that their own education should be a continuous process. As committed lifelong learners, they are well positioned to promote that drive within our students. Dr. Michael Poles Q. What are you hearing from faculty about the feedback? We hear that for many, this is the first time they’ve gotten specific, actionable feedback, and they are incredibly happy about it. Some are a little daunted by the process, since they are not used to being evaluated immediately after they have completed a task. Still, the best teachers are always seeking to improve, and, just as we use feedback to improve our students’ and trainees’ performance, we have to be open to feedback as teachers—because we should all be involved in practice-based learning and improvement. Q. Your son, Jordan, is a medical student here on the accelerated three-year MD pathway in internal medicine. How do innovation and technology play a role in his medical school experience? Like most of his classmates, he has been steeped in technology for his entire life. Anything that we can envision, this generation of students can bring to life using technology. For example, during his preclinical medical education, Jordan felt that he and his classmates could use more opportunities to reason through difficult clinical cases and grow their clinical reasoning skills. So he developed an app that gives learners access to a communal library of clinical scenarios to help them advance their abilities in a low-stakes learning environment. He’s now working on a second app to help learners better understand arterial blood gas analysis and gain more confidence in their interpretation. Today’s students are full of amazing ideas, and more importantly, they know how to harness technology to deliver those ideas. We get the best medical students in the world, and we must continue to advance how we educate them. Q. You’ve been at NYU Langone for your whole career, except for a five-year stint at UCLA to obtain your PhD. What keeps you here? It’s the NYU Langone vortex. You can only stay away for so long before you get drawn back. When I walked back into Bellevue after five years in LA, all the love that I had for this institution came flooding back. It’s not just a place where you come to work and care for patients. It really is home, where everyone feels like family. Taking care of patients in the modern medical environment can be difficult. But it’s that much easier and more rewarding when you know you can count on everyone around you to be committed to excellence and committed to creating a comfortable, supportive environment that allows you to do your best work. That is what epitomizes this place, and I couldn’t imagine being anywhere else. Written by Deborah Schupack Announcing a new Campaign for Sala Institute to meet the needs of children and families when they need it most Recently we launched an annual campaign to ensure children and their families receive Sala Institute’s vitally important supportive services and resilience programs at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. We met up with Nell Shanahan, Sala Campaign Cabinet chair and the parent of a former patient at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital to learn more about the campaign. What is the Sala Campaign and why is it launching now? The Sala Campaign – what I have described as a kind of “shared commitment,” if you will—is really an effort to both sustain and bolster Sala Institute’s important work—work that exists across four primary domains: safety & quality initiatives, partnerships with families, resiliency programs, and support services. So many of these services are not wholly covered by insurance, and they are the services on which patients and families rely for their healing and wellbeing. This is why we are aiming to raise $1.5 million this year. Hopefully more, actually. As for why we need this campaign right now, I think there are three primary reasons, though I could certainly list a dozen, at least! First, there are greater numbers of patients and families coming to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital than we have seen previously. Second, our patients and families’ needs are far more complex today and the procedures far more involved. And third, given the increasing rates of anxiety and depression in children and families, Sala’s services are more vital now than ever. Nell Shanahan, Sala Campaign Cabinet Chair, with her family. How did you first become acquainted with Sala Institute? Well, it all started when I first met Trudy and Bob Gottesman over 20 years ago, before Sala was even created, but when they were both already very much involved in supporting NYU Langone and the children and families served both in and outside of the hospital. It was a time in my life where I was not as focused on philanthropy as, perhaps, I should have been. My early twenties! My profession and my personal relationships were at the forefront. But that wouldn’t remain the case for long. Trudy was an incredible role model for me, and her work at the hospital had a profound effect on helping me recognize the importance of looking beyond your profession and your family and taking part in giving back and, in a way, seeking to heal the world.  So that’s the background. Fast forward to the founding of Sala almost 10 years ago now, I knew it was an institute I believed in and wanted to commit my time and resources to help. Little did I know then that my six-year-old daughter Hannah would be hospitalized at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital only a few short months after I joined the Sala Circle. She had a seizure in a pool and required monitoring for several days on one of the inpatient units. What was it like to engage with Sala Institute as a parent, as compared to a donor? It was a profound experience, to say the least. Although it was understandably scary for Hannah and pretty overwhelming for me, the services that I knew came from Sala, and the clinicians who had participated in so many of Sala’s programs, created a space for Hannah to find joy in her days and comfort in mine, knowing we were both being held emotionally, so carefully and, in a way, lovingly too. I recall the first morning after our admission when we were waiting for the doctors to round. We were both not quite sure how the day would unfold. We heard a knock and there in the doorway was a child life specialist offering to make some glittery slime with Hannah. You should have seen Hannah’s face! Overjoyed. Later, we turned on the hospital’s TV channel and Hannah had the opportunity to take a ballet lesson from a principal at the New York City Ballet. Later in the day, we walked down the hallway and found a huge interactive board for doodling to your heart’s content. And that was just the first day. Seeing the kind of work happen live and experiencing the support we received by these clinicians and specialists made me realize how much more I wanted to focus my time and attention on the Institute and all it does for children and families. It was then that I accepted the role of the Sala Campaign Cabinet chair. Why should others consider donating what they can to the Sala Campaign? I touched on earlier this idea of what I see as the importance of seeking to heal the world, wherever that piece of the world is. The idea comes from the Jewish tradition and is described as Tikkun Olam- uniting to heal the world. I love the idea that we can each choose to help others heal beyond our own circles. And I think we all have a responsibility to do just that. I love the idea that we can each choose to help others heal beyond our own circles. And I think we all have a responsibility to do just that. Nell Shanahan Sala Campaign Cabinet Chair Support the Campaign for Sala Five tips to help kids and parents feel better during vaccinations. “Will it hurt?” is an age-old question that children ask when getting a shot. Since the Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine was recently approved for children 5 to 11, care teams at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital have been hearing this question a lot. And teams from Sala Institute have worked hard to make getting this vaccine, and other needles and procedures, as pain free as possible for children. One of the care teams’ priorities is making sure that children are able to successfully manage the experience, says Chris Brown, director, Therapeutic Recreation, Child Life & Creative Arts Therapies, part of Sala Institute for Child and Family