allows me the opportunity to provide excellent customer service, educate staff on security-related topics, provide support during difficult situations and represent the department in a positive manner. This is an organization that will encourage you and wants to see you succeed. Aug 2016 Security Officer II Mar 2019 Supervisor, Security May 2022 2024-12-17T14:07:52+00:00 Use the filters below to start a new search and find additional jobs. Your Saved Jobs There are no jobs in your cart! 2025-01-06T19:11:27+00:00 Find Out About Your Next Big  Career Opportunity Discover how we’re creating exciting opportunities for you to join our team and make an impact! Check out our upcoming recruitment events below and be sure to connect with our virtual NYU Langone Assistant to learn more! Tammy A. Joseph C. Jodi H. Samuel W. I was a Student Nurse Extern during my last year in nursing school and I was in awe of how well everyone worked together, and how much they truly cared about their patients. I knew I wanted to be a part of this amazing team, and I am still here 32 years later. In that time, I have utilized tuition assistance to obtain a Masters in Nursing Administration and used available opportunities to enrich my leadership skills and explore new avenues in my career. Nurse Manager - Surgical/Cardiac Service Administration It’s an especially exciting time to be at NYU Langone, partly because it feels like we’re standing on the edge of tomorrow. I want all patients, families, and employees to feel that too - that a small level of science fiction just became science fact, and is accessible to them. There’s a reason we have the reputation we do. We continue to be successful because our team is always willing to try and work hard. Our new Kimmel Pavilion exemplifies that hard work. Supervisor, Guest Services and Patient Relations I’m excited about everything related to Kimmel Pavilion - the space, the private rooms, the state-of-the-art equipment, and what this ultimately means for our patients and team. Our employees provide the highest care, and now they’re even better equipped to do so. We want our patients and families to feel safe, comfortable, and engaged. This brand new facility will have the most advanced technology, which gives our team a greater peace of mind, knowing we can provide that experience for our patients. Program Manager - Physical Therapy What I like most about my job is that it’s never boring. What brings the excitement are the healthcare advancements that we use in surgery, like robotics. Procedures are innovative and challenging, allowing us to learn new technologies and methods to optimize patient outcomes. In the OR, I also act as an advocate for patient safety. We all have a role to play when it comes to safety in the workplace as a whole. Everyone here genuinely cares about one another’s well being. Registered Nurse, Operating Room NYU Langone Hospital — Brooklyn 2024-12-16T10:38:26+00:00 Grow Your Career Where Excellence Thrives NYU Langone Health is a world-class medical institution with Magnet®-recognized status by the American Nurses Credentialing Center (ANCC). Advance your career supported by exceptional faculty and staff. Skip Page Contents Navigation Explore Why You Should Work With Us Page Contents: Our Mission and Values Career Development Recognition Programs Graduates, Interns, & Admin Fellows Veterans Our Mission, Culture, and Values We Work Each Day With Pride and Purpose Our trifold mission to care, teach, and discover is achieved daily through NYU Langone’s diverse and inclusive culture, which is devoted to excellence across the organization. We reflect our culture and values in the way we work, delivering care that is patient-centered and maintains the highest standards of excellence. We are collaborative, respectful of individual dignity, and focused on the improvement of individual and system outcomes through safe and ethical practices. We Value Performance Respect Integrity Diversity Excellence We focus on our aspirations and achievements and deliver on our commitments. We collaborate, communicate, share, listen, and recognize each other's contributions. We foster a culture of the highest ethical standards, trust, and honesty. We embrace cultural diversity, inclusion, individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We are passionate about world-class patient care, education, and research. Back to Page Contents Benefits for the Life You Lead At NYU Langone, we are committed to supporting our diverse workforce and their loved ones with a comprehensive benefits and wellness package. Our benefits program is flexible and adapts to the ever-changing needs of our employees, whether it’s developing your career, starting a family, or saving for retirement. That’s why NYU Langone Health employees can choose the plans that best fit their stage of life, family situation, and more. Non-Union, Part-Time Employees Non-Union, Full-Time Employees Temp/Casual Employees Union Employees Award-Winning Benefits for Everybody Must work at least 17.5 hours/week Medical Dental Prescription Vision Commuter Benefit Program Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources, and Counseling Support) Family Care Benefits (including Emergency Back-up Care, Child Care Center Options, College Planning Resources) Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance*, Surrogacy Assistance*, and Fertility Benefits) Voluntary Benefits (including Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Life Insurance Short-Term Disability – Available to all employees except Faculty 403(b) Retirement Savings Plan – Employer contributions upon meeting a one-year waiting period. Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax ROTH basis upon hire to the IRS limit for the year. Long-Term Disability Retiree Medical Accounts Flexible Spending Account Legal Assistance Plan Employee Assistance Program Employee Recognition Programs Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days, and Cultural Heritage Day/Holidays) Educational Discounts (including tuition discounts at certain schools and book discounts) Cell Phone Provider Discounts Gym Membership Discounts Entertainment and Retail Discounts through Plum Benefits Workers’ Compensation Non-Union Employee Benefits for Full-time Employees Full-time, non-union employees regularly scheduled to work 35 hours or more per week receive all the benefits of Non-Union, Part-Time Employees as well as the following: Tuition Benefits NYU Langone Paid Family Leave Bank Family Building Benefits (Adoption Assistance and Surrogacy Assistance) Temp/Casual Employee Benefits Wellness Programs (including Wellbeats wellness platform and Counseling Support) 403 (b) Retirement Plan (Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year) Short-Term Disability Union Employee Benefits Some of the unions that represent employees at NYU Langone include: “Local 1199” SEIU United Healthcare Workers East, Local 1 Security Officers Union, “Local 810” International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Doctors Council SEIU, “Local 32” BJ SEIU, The Brotherhood of Security Personnel, Officers and Guards International Union (2313 7th Avenue, New York, NY 10003; Phone: (212) 281-2000), Federation of Nurses/UFT, American Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO, Community and Social Agency Employees Union, District Council 1705, AFSCME, AFL-CIO, (“Local 205”), and The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators (“CSA”). Employees in positions that are represented by a union should consult with their specific collective bargaining agreement regarding benefits eligibility. Below are the benefits that are offered through NYU Langone: Wellness (including Wellbeats wellness platform, WeightWatchers, Student Loan Forgiveness Resources and Counseling Support) Voluntary Benefits (Critical Illness, Accident Insurance, Hospital Indemnity, Permanent Life Insurance, Pet Insurance) Commuter Benefits 403 (b) Retirement Plans -Employees can make voluntary contributions on a pretax and/or after-tax Roth basis upon hire up to the IRS limit for the year. Time off Benefits (including Sick Days, Vacation Days and Holidays) Employee Recognition Program Award-Winning Your Health + Well-Being at NYU Langone is the award-winning employee wellness program that provides a range of offerings to support our employees and their loved ones. The program represents multiple aspects of health, such as mental, physical, nutritional, sleep, financial, social, and preventive care, so there are supportive resources for everyone. We Invest in Your Career Success At NYU Langone, we create customized training and development programs so you can meet your goals and reach your full potential at every stage of your career. New Beginnings Orientation Programs Our New Beginnings orientation programs provide employees and managers with the information and resources they need to transition into their new roles, familiarize themselves with our academic medical center, and help them assimilate into the organization. Learning Courses and Resources We offer in-person and online learning courses and resources to help professionals enhance their critical skills and leadership capabilities. Our team provides recommendations, support, and tailored programs to ensure professional development at all levels. Leadership Development We give leaders the tools to advance, grow and lead high-performing teams. Focusing on achieving career goals, we offer resources such as building workforce relationships, adapting to changing environments, and leveraging strengths to achieve goals. Career Development Resources Our career development resources include roadmaps to grow essential competencies and skills based on employees’ desired career paths. Our Steps for Success program helps employees advance their careers by offering one-on-one coaching, workshops, and more. Career Options We offer programs to advance career progression. From educational offerings, like certificate, diploma and degree-level programs, to self-guided resources, employees can develop new skills and engage in hands-on learning experiences to advance their careers. Recognition Programs & Events We Value, Celebrate, and Support Our Employees At NYU Langone, we believe our employees are the cornerstone of our achievements and should be celebrated and appreciated for their exceptional work and commitment to providing the quality patient-centered care we deliver every day. Recognition Platform Appreciation Events & Experiences Milestone Program Employee Appreciation Our Employee Recognition Platform is a place for colleagues to openly  express their admiration for each other's hard work, unwavering commitment, and exceptional accomplishments. It’s just one of the many ways we foster a culture of appreciation at NYU Langone. We recognize that our employees' well-being extends beyond the workplace and includes their families. Our curated outings and events, from exclusive employee gatherings to family-friendly outings and experiences, provide opportunities for cherished moments beyond the office. Whether bonding with cross-functional colleagues or creating lasting memories with loved ones, we strive to cultivate a supportive community both in and out of the workplace. From their fifth to their fiftieth, our Milestone Program pays tribute to  our long-tenured employees and celebrates their years of service and dedication to our organization. To recognize our employees for their work, we celebrate Employee Appreciation Day each calendar year with an organizational-wide campaign designed to thank them for all they do. Begin Your Career Learning  From the Best We’re excited that you want to grow your career at NYU Langone. Here, you will learn from the best as you work alongside colleagues who are leaders in their fields and have skills and knowledge they are happy to share. New Graduates Interns Administrative Fellows AmeriCorps Nursing Residency As a Magnet®-recognized hospital, re-designated for the fifth time in 2024, NYU Langone is among the nation’s leaders in shaping the future of nursing. There are few better places to begin your career than here with us. The Nurse Residency Program at NYU Langone follows the Vizient/AACN curriculum and is accredited by the CCNE (Commission for Collegiate Nursing Education). The one-year program is designed to promote professional practice by building specific competencies, critical thinking skills, and leadership abilities through educational activities during the first year of practice. All new graduate baccalaureate-prepared nurses participate in the program. After being oriented to their specific clinical unit, they participate in professional development and clinical seminars while receiving support and mentorship to promote organizational engagement. Master of Science in Clinical Research Clinical Research is a component of healthcare science that focuses on the safety and efficacy of medications, diagnostics, and medical treatments. With over 900 clinical trials currently being conducted at NYU Langone, there is no better time to further your career in clinical research. A 30-credit Master of Science in Clinical Research is offered through the NYU College of Dentistry. This unique program provides training in clinical research methodology, epidemiology and biostatistics, ethical and regulatory principles, and evidence-based healthcare. Please refer to our MS in Clinical Research page for program details. Whether you wish to pursue a position in direct patient care or another area such as management, information technology, research, or other disciplines, NYU Langone can offer several internship opportunities to support your career goals. Interns for Credit Program Our current intern partnerships include St John’s University, Rutgers University, SUNY Downstate, and UNC Charlotte. To participate in our Interns for Credit Program, students must: Be eligible to earn college credit Have an internship partnership program established and approved by both their school and NYU Langone Work a minimum number of hours that will vary based on NYU Langone department and school program requirements Have excellent communication, interpersonal, and organizational skills Possess PC proficiency and other skills dependent upon the department Health Career Opportunity Program This program consists of three, four-week internships that provide students with hands-on clinical experience and exposure to a variety of healthcare professions such as Rehabilitation Therapy, Radiology, Advanced Practice, Pharmacy, Clinical Nutrition and Food Services, Nursing, and other vital roles within the health system. Learn More About This Internship Student Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. During non-summer months, the student intern can work a maximum of 17 hours per week. Student Research Interns The student intern must be a full-time student or, if working in the summer months (mid-May through mid-September), must be planning to return to full-time status in the fall. Functions performed must be related to their professional course of study or specialty field. Vocational Trainees NYU Langone’s Rusk Vocational Rehabilitation department helps individuals with disabilities find employment in the competitive marketplace through innovative programs and services. Through  this training program, individuals can gain valuable work experience and develop job-related skills  and competencies. Learn More About Vocational Rehabilitation Services Non-Traditional Volunteers Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) NYU Langone Health’s Department of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry has exciting internship opportunities. Internships are available for undergraduates from any NYU school or college in NYU Langone’s Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry as part of a minor in child and adolescent mental health studies (CAMS). Learn More About Child and Adolescent Mental Health Studies (CAMS) Administrative Fellowship NYU Langone is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers, with a mission to serve, teach, and discover through excellence in patient care, education, and research. To ensure the continuation of exceptional administrative service and practices that support those contributions, NYU Langone has a dedicated Administrative Fellowship Program. Further information regarding NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship program can be found below. Any additional questions can be directed to adminfellow@nyulangone.org. NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program has been in place since 1988. It has expanded to include fellowship positions at the following NYU Langone hospitals in the system: The Tisch/Kimmel Hospital, NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island. Program Structure NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship is a one- or two-year, full-time, salaried program. The Fellowship offers on-the-job training in the skills and responsibilities required of a hospital administrator in a major academic medical center. As a Fellow, you will be placed at the center of NYU Langone’s hospital operations and work alongside the institution’s leaders and innovators. A feature that distinguishes our program is that Fellows can tailor and define their experiences through the variety of projects that they work on during their time with NYU Langone. As part of this program, you will learn by assuming increasing levels of responsibility and become involved with a broad range of operational issues, personnel, and processes while being precepted by senior-level administrators. The Administrative Fellowship is project-based in nature. Activities may include but are not limited to: Administrator on-call duties Compliance and regulatory assessment Financial decisions and budget review Operational processes and workflow analysis Policy evaluation and procedure development Program design and implementation Project management Data analysis and outcomes monitoring During the first months of the Fellowship, Fellows will meet with their respective campus leaders and the Health System’s Senior Leadership to become oriented to hospital operations as well as the function and structure of the organization. Fellows then become fully immersed; they can seek out projects in personal areas of interest. Examples of recent projects include: Developing business plans and coordinating the opening of new outpatient facilities Optimizing efficiencies in the emergency department Reducing hospital-acquired conditions across patient care units Coordinating change management initiatives within ancillary and support services Implementing High-Reliability processes in patient care units Developing staffing models for clinical units and departments Application Process/Requirements The application deadline for the 2025-2026 Administrative Fellowship will be in Fall 2024. Applicants are required to graduate from an accredited healthcare management program (MHA, MHSA, MPH, MPA, or MBA program with a focus on healthcare administration) by the beginning of the fellowship in July 2025. All applications should be submitted electronically through the National Administrative Fellowship Centralized Application Service (NAFCAS). Applications will be available at the beginning of June 2024 at the following link: nafcas.liaisoncas.com. Any applications submitted after the NAFCAS deadline will not be considered. NYU Langone does not sponsor work visas for administrative fellowship positions. Application Requirements include the following: Required application portfolio materials include: Current Resume Official Graduate School Transcript (Visit the “Academic History” quadrant to submit colleges attended and to download the Transcript Request Form for your registrar’s office. Transcripts should be sent directly from your registrar’s office to NAFCAS.) Three (3) Letters of Recommendation (to be requested in the “Supporting Information” quadrant): (1) Academic, (1) Professional, and (1) Other (academic, professional, or letter from your program director) Two essays (maximum 300 words each) Finalists will be invited to interview with senior leadership. NYU Langone is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. Current Fellows Sophia Silverman (2023-Present) Graduate School: University of Michigan Hometown: Royal Oak, Michigan Jasmine Bar (2023-Present) Graduate School: New York University Hometown: Briarcliff, NY Helen Zhuo (2023-Present) Graduate School: Yale University Hometown: Queens, NY Eyob Teklesenbet (2024-Present) Graduate School: University of Missouri Hometown: Columbia, MO Ezra Affoumado (2024-Present) Hometown: San Francisco, CA Former Fellows Administrative Fellow Graduate School Term Current Position at NYUL Isabella Harnick Cornell University 2022-2024 Operations Manager, Hospital Operations, Women and Children’s Services T. Nash Georgetown University Project Manager, Beyond Bridges Julia Stockman University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill 2022-2023 N/A Ivy Xiang Jonathan Novak University of Texas Health Science Center Business Manager, Perioperative Services Julie Livingstone Project Manager, Hospital Operations & Analytics Garrett Romines University of Missouri 2022-2022 Business Manager, Ambulatory Care Services Anjana Speedhar Project Manager, Perlmutter Cancer Center Lynn Nguyen Maira Undavalli University of Pittsburgh Tiffany Kang John Amory 2018-2020 Manager, Hospital Operations Emilee Warner 2019-2020 Beining Niu Marissa Wiegner Tulane University Assistant Director, Emergency Services – Cobble Hill Delvene Gill 2018-2019 Andrew Munfakh University of Michigan 2017-2018 Director, Comprehensive Transfer Center and Patient Flow Operations Annette Rabinovich 2016-2018 Kara Dimon For more information about NYU Langone’s Administrative Fellowship Program and to learn about current and former members, please email us at AmeriCorps at the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone AmeriCorps is a federal program for individuals who commit their time and skills to helping people and communities around America. Through the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s partnership with the program, we can offer full-time, short-term volunteer assignments to individuals interested in providing support to their community while earning a living stipend now and scholarship money for the future. During this assignment, you can earn valuable experience with a world-renowned healthcare organization while helping people in your neighborhood. The organizational and problem-solving skills you’ll develop during this experience will help you in any career path you choose. How to Apply To learn more about the opportunities available and how you can benefit from being part of this program, connect with us today. Please send your resume/letter of interest to americorps@nyulangone.org Applicants must be at least 18 years of age and a US citizen or permanent resident. Read more information about the Check & Connect Mentor position. We Are Committed to Supporting Those Who Served At NYU Langone, we understand and appreciate the unique skills and life experiences ex-service members can bring to a role. That’s why we’ve dedicated ourselves to creating new programs for the veteran community–providing social support and vital new job opportunities. Programs like The Cohen Family Clinic provide free, high-quality, integrated mental healthcare to veterans and their families. Our Veteran Resource Group gives veterans an opportunity to support each other through initiatives such as our veteran buddy program to aid new veteran hires and give back to the veteran community by participating in charitable and civic events such as the Tunnels to Towers 5k and the New York City Veterans Day Parade. Veterans can also participate in our Monthly Virtual Chats and Veterans Buddy Program, which guides veterans who may be unsure of where to start in their new life  as civilians. NYU Langone and FourBlock have formed a partnership to match Veteran candidates to job opportunities with NYU Langone. FourBlock is a non-profit organization supporting returning service members transitioning from military service to meaningful civilian careers. Their Career Readiness Program, taught by corporate executives in major cities across the U.S., now serves more than 600 transitioning veterans annually. Our Badges of Honor With nine of our clinical specialties among the top five in the nation, 600 physicians recognized as leading doctors in their fields, and over 300 outpatient locations across the New York area and Florida, our renowned, world-class medical service is highly decorated. Similarly, we are proud to share we receive badges of distinction every year for the work we do to support our veteran workforce every day. Hear From Our Veterans Felix L. Dr. Benjamin J. S. David S. Terry L. NYU Langone Health is one of the best places I have worked. A lot of the skills I developed in the Navy transferred over to the facilities side of healthcare. Our leadership is constantly striving to be the best, which motivates me to be better. They really believe in the people they have here and it’s very military friendly.  We want to see our colleagues succeed. We take care  of our own. Facilities Operations Manager My experience serving in the military helped shape how I care for patients today. It played a huge role in my development, both personally and professionally. I know my experience is from many years ago, but I enjoy the opportunity to help other veterans here at NYU Langone Health. Menas S. Gregory, Clinical Psychiatrist I'm a 9-year veteran at the main campus Security Department here at NYU Langone Health. As a 22-year military veteran between active duty and Army National Guard, I have found that a strong common denominator one can link is camaraderie and teamwork. Departments that work together are able to accomplish the mission of providing world-class service and support to our patients. This is who we are, and this is what we do. As in the military, we are proud to serve. Manager-Security I work in the psychiatry department. I just made my 20th year as an NYU employee. I spent 15 of those years doing research for NYU at the Veterans Hospital, working with brilliant minds. It’s easy to say that both the NYU community and the VA community bring out the best in people. If you share your contact information with NYU Langone Health, we may contact you about your healthcare by email, text message, or phone call. This communication may include appointment reminders; sensitive or identifiable information about your condition, diagnosis, or treatment; payment-related messages; quality improvement communications; patient portal–related messages; and other similar types of messages. Email and text message may be unsecure and unencrypted forms of communication. Standard message and data rates may apply for each text message, and communication frequency varies. You can text HELP or STOP at any time. Phone calls may use dialing equipment such as artificial or prerecorded voice technology, or automated telephone dialing systems. You can change your communications preferences or opt out of communications at any time in your account or by talking to your doctor’s office. NYU Langone Health’s Notice of Privacy Practices describes how medical information about you may be used and disclosed and how you can get access to this information. Notice of Privacy Policy Acknowledgment Notice of Privacy Practices in Other Languages Arabic (العربية) Bengali (বাংলা) Chinese (中文) Creole (kreol) Greek (ελληνικά) Italian (Italiano) Korean (한국의) Polish (Polski) Portugese (Português) Russian (Pусский) Spanish (Español) Health Information Exchange (HIE) Fact Sheet and Consent Form in Other Languages Albanian (Shqiptarëve) French (Français) Tagalog (Tagalog) Urdu (اُردُو) Yiddish (ייִדיש) It is the policy of NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone do not exclude from participation, deny benefits to, or engage in discrimination against any person employed or seeking employment on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local law. NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provide free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively such as: Qualified sign language interpreters Written information in various formats including, but not limited to, large print documents If you speak a language other than English, language assistance services are available to you free of charge. These services include: Qualified interpreters Information written in other languages ATENCIÓN: si habla español, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística. 注意：如果您使用中文，您可以免費獲得語言援助服務。 ВНИМАНИЕ: Если вы говорите на русском языке, то вам доступны бесплатные услуги перевода. ATANSYON: Si ou pale Kreyòl Ayisyen, gen sèvis èd pou lang ki disponib gratis pou ou. 주의: 한국어를 사용하시는 경우, 언어 지원 서비스를 무료로 이용하실 수 있습니다. ATTENZIONE: In caso la lingua parlata sia l’italiano, sono disponibili servizi di assistenza linguistica gratuiti. אויפמערקזאם: אויב איר רעדט אידיש, עס זענען פארהאן שפראך הילף־דינסטן פאר אייך אומזיסט. মনোযোগ দিন: আপনি যদি বাংলায় কথা বলেন, তাহলে ভাষা সহায়তা পরিষেবাগুলি, বিনামূল্যে আপনার জন্য উপলব্ধ আছে। UWAGA: Jeżeli mówisz po polsku, możesz skorzystać z bezpłatnej pomocy językowej. ملحوظة: إذا كنت تتحدث العربية، فإن خدمات المساعدة اللغوبة متاحة لك بالمجان ATTENTION : Si vous parlez français, des services d’aide linguistique vous sont proposés gratuitement. توجہ دیں: اگر آپ اردو بولتے ہیں تو آپ کو زبان سے متعلق مدد کی خدمات مفت دستیاب ہیں۔ PAUNAWA: Kung nagsasalita ka ng Tagalog, maaari kang gumamit ng mga serbisyong tulong sa wika nang walang bayad. ΠΡΟΣΟΧΗ: Αν μιλάτε ελληνικά, στη διάθεσή σας βρίσκονται υπηρεσίες γλωσσικής υποστήριξης, οι οποίες παρέχονται δωρεάν. KUJDES: Nëse flitni shqip, për ju ka në dispozicion shërbime të asistencës gjuhësore, pa pagesë. For more information about these free services or for assistance at NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, please call: NYU Langone 34th Street and all ambulatory sites: NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital: NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone: If you believe that NYU Langone Health and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone have failed to provide these services or discriminated against you in another way, you can file a grievance by contacting the following: NYU Langone 34th Street and Ambulatory Sites Patient Relations Director 212-263-7085 545 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016 patientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital Patient Experience Director 646-754-9753 301 East 17th Street, New York, NY 10003 hjdpatientrelations@nyumc.org NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn Patient Experience Manager 347-764-1998 150 55th Street, Brooklyn, NY 11220 patientrelationlutheran@nyumc.org If you need help filing a grievance, the contacts above are also available to help you. A civil rights complaint can also be filed with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office for Civil Rights, electronically through the Office for Civil Rights Complaint Portal ; by phone at 1-800-368-1019 ; or by mail at: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW, Room 509F, HHH Building, Washington, D.C. 20201. Complaint forms are available on the HHS website The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management’s Hospital Compliance team supports NYU Langone Health’s faculty, administration, and staff in identifying and mitigating legal and compliance risks associated with billing, coding, and reimbursement for hospital-based inpatient and outpatient services. Hospital Compliance conducts billing and documentation-focused reviews throughout NYU Langone Hospitals. The reviews include, but are not limited to, diagnosis coding, MS-DRG assignment, CPT code and HCPCS procedure codes assignment, modifier usage, and Facility Evaluation and Management services. Hospital Compliance also provides group and individual training and education on topics related to billing, coding and documentation upon department request, or if there is a need, identified through internal-focused reviews. 1138614_RR00100778 Job ID: 1138614_RR00100778 Shift: Monday to Friday; 9:00AM – 5:00PM Surgery – C-STAR (S2083) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Data Analyst. In this role, the successful candidate designs and performs statistical analyses under the supervision of the Center of Surgical and Transplant Applied Research C Star leadership team. Analyze clinical data using machine learning techniques to support research outcomes. Develop and maintain models using frameworks like PyTorch or TensorFlow, ensuring they are suitable for handling large-scale datasets. Apply natural language processing methods to interpret and analyze medical texts and patient data. Collaborate with research teams to design and implement models that address specific research questions. Continuously update and refine models based on new research findings and emerging data. Assist in preparing research papers and presentations by providing data-driven insights and analysis. Participate in research meetings and contribute to discussions on methodology and results interpretation. Ensure compliance with data privacy and protection guidelines when handling sensitive medical data. Contribute original thoughts, hypotheses, and analysis to write reports, abstracts, and manuscripts under faculty supervision Support grant proposal submissions and support funder reports for NIH funded Liaise with senior researchers at other institutions to conduct analyses on behalf of national scientific committees Prepare interim reports to summarize ongoing cohort studies for principal investigators, study staff, and data safety and monitoring boards Under faculty supervision, design analytical strategies research proposals and draft statistical analysis plans for grants Performs miscellaneous job duties as assigned Bachelor’s degree in a related discipline (computer science, mathematics, electrical engineering, or related discipline) 0-1 years working experience Practical experience in natural language processing (NLP) and analyzing clinical data. Strong computational and programming skills Familiarity with advanced machine learning and deep learning applied to large datasets. Competence in using machine learning frameworks such as PyTorch or TensorFlow. Understanding of representation models, multi-modal models, and self-supervised learning. Open to candidates with foundational skills in machine learning and data analysis, even if not all advanced criteria are met Strong quantitative aptitude, desire to learn new skills  and information, and ability to interpret complex analytic quantitative information; Strong attention to detail Demonstrated organizational skills, self-motivation, flexibility, and the ability to thrive in a fast-paced, energetic, highly creative, entrepreneurial environment Masters degree in a related discipline computer science mathematics electrical engineering or related discipline Excellent written and verbal communication skills Excellent data visualization skills NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $64,350.00 – $85,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1137803_RR00100430 Job ID: 1137803_RR00100430 Shift: 07:00 AM – 07:30 PM, (3) Flex Days Department: Polysomnography, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Sleep Laboratory (W6156) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Polysomnography (Sleep) Technologist, (10K Sign-On-Bonus), NYU Langone Sleep Center, Garden City. In this role, the successful Polysomnographic Technologist works under the general supervision of the Medical Director Administrative Director and Supervisors performing diagnostic testing therapeutic services patient care and education They perform technical duties in conjunction with the operation and maintenance of polysomnographic equipment including but not limited to acquisition scoring and report generation. Demonstrates the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment assessment and education of neonatal pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric patients. Explains test procedures to the patient. Shows patient to room orients the patient to the facility amenities educates the patient on testing procedures and completes patient registration using the electronic medical record system. Explains the modality and function of positive air pressure treatment Performs mask fittings, pressure acclimatization and titrations on CPAP BPAP and ASV. Performs nerve stimulator optimization studies. Selects the