he needed.” Shortly before the child’s first birthday, the patient was referred to . There, a multidisciplinary team of specialists launched a program targeting his impairments in strength, posture, range of motion, balance, endurance, communication, feeding, swallowing, and cognitive skills. It would continue for the next two years. A Long, Hard Climb When the patient entered treatment, in early 2021, he was 11 months old; his developmental age, accounting for his preterm delivery, was 7 months. His functional abilities, however, lagged much farther behind. On the Rossetti Infant-Toddler Language Scale, his verbal skills were in the range of 0 to 3 months, and on the Peabody Developmental Motor Scales-2 test, he scored well below the fifth percentile. “He had difficulty with the most basic skills, like raising his head while lying on his belly,” recalls Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, his primary physical therapist. In twice-weekly sessions, Dr. Lam and her colleagues set out to improve the child’s strength, coordination, and awareness of his environment. “We began with exercises addressing his overall weakness, such as picking him up in ways that facilitated activation of his belly muscles,” Dr. Lam explains. “As he got stronger, we worked on sitting and crawling.” “We passed information back and forth. If one of us was working on a skill, the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” The physical and occupational therapy teams were in constant communication. “We passed information back and forth,” Dr. Lam says, “so that if one of us was working on a skill—say, trying to get him to engage with toys, or to use both hands for tasks—the other team would incorporate that focus into their session.” In November 2021, the patient started aquatic therapy to further strengthen his core muscles. Within a few weeks, he could pull himself up to a standing position. Once he could remain upright for prolonged periods, Dr. Lam determined that he could benefit from orthotics and referred him to pediatric physiatry, for comprehensive care led by Patricia T. Tan, MD , medical director for pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation services at Rusk Rehabilitation. The physical therapy and physiatry teams collaborated to prescribe medical devices such as orthotics and assistive devices that helped get him crawling—and then walking—for increasing distances. “Our team performs comprehensive evaluations of the high-risk newborns, addressing concerns ranging from visual or hearing impairment to spasticity, muscle weakness, and gait abnormalities,” Dr. P. Tan says. At the same time, speech–language pathologists, led by Tina M. Tan, CCC-SLP , focused on improving the patient’s feeding, swallowing, and communication skills. Initially fed by a gastrostomy tube (G tube), he underwent a swallowing study to determine which foods and liquids he could safely eat and drink. Ongoing feeding therapy helped him develop the oral motor and swallowing skills he needed to ingest spoon-fed baby foods, chew solid foods, and drink from a cup and straw. By 29 months, he had acquired the communication skills of a typical 12- to 15-month-old—communicating with gestures, single words, and occasional two-word combinations; and following simple, context-related directives. The patient’s parents, meanwhile, were assigned to continue such lessons at home, a responsibility they embraced enthusiastically. NYU Langone’s social work and care management teams helped the couple, whose primary language was not English, navigate the intricacies of the healthcare and educational systems. The Power of a Team Approach As his third birthday approached, the patient underwent neurocognitive, behavioral, and physical testing to assess his readiness for preschool. Although his gross motor skills remained significantly delayed, he’d made remarkable progress. He could stand from the floor without assistance, ambulate independently across flat surfaces, and step over 2-inch obstacles. He could even navigate stairs, with close supervision. “Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” The patient had also demonstrated significant improvements in feeding and was eating solid foods and drinking from a straw. He was able to reduce his dependency on tube-feeding, taking in most of his needed nutrition by mouth. In speech, reasoning, and other neurocognitive areas, his scores ranged from below average to low average. Strikingly, however, he exhibited 83 percent mastery of numbers, 90 percent mastery of colors, and 100 percent mastery of letters. It was time to take another giant step. In September 2023, the patient enrolled in New York City’s 3-K pre-kindergarten program, where he continues to thrive. “To me, it seems miraculous that he was able to gain the skills necessary to participate in school,” Dr. Lam says. “I credit our team approach. Everyone saw this little boy as a whole person, rather than just focusing on their specific area of expertise. That’s what allowed him to really flourish.” Pediatric Physical Therapy Megan Conklin, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy, and associate director of Pediatric Therapy Services at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Allison U. Lam, PT, DPT, is a board-certified clinical specialist in pediatric physical therapy and pediatric physical therapy supervisor at Rusk Rehabilitation. Patricia T. Tan, MD, is the medical director for Rusk Rehabilitation’s pediatric physical medicine and rehabilitation service. She is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine. Latest in Rehabilitation New AI Tool Measures Stroke Impairment in Less Than 60 Seconds An automated approach that uses AI could provide real-time feedback to improve rehabilitation training. Unique Study Tool Prepares Physicians for Sports Medicine Board Examination Rusk Rehabilitation’s board review course features lectures by leading experts—available on-demand to clinicians nationwide. Bringing Full Attention to Pediatric Chronic Pain Pain specialist Dr. Jinpu Li highlights how combining education, psychology, medicine, and rehab enhances pediatric pain management. New App in Development Aims to Offer Personalized Mental Health Support According to the CDC, 46 percent of all healthcare workers reported feeling burned out in 2022, up from 38 percent in 2018. Depression and anxiety are also common among health workers. These conditions not only impact an individual’s overall health, but they can also lead to poor workplace performance, patient safety concerns, and medical errors. Recognizing that employee burnout is becoming a critical issue for healthcare systems, Thea Gallagher, PsyD , a clinical associate professor of psychiatry at NYU Langone Health, is working on new and innovative ways to intervene and support wellbeing. Under new grant funding from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Dr. Gallagher and her team are developing a digital wellness app, COBALT, to assess both subjective and objective symptoms of distress and burnout among healthcare workers. The mobile app will use artificial intelligence (AI) technologies to provide personalized mental health resources and microinterventions —focused resources or exercises designed to be brief and minimally demanding. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” “Burnout rates are rising, and frontline healthcare workers are often hit hardest,” Dr. Gallagher says. “Our AI-based smartphone app will deliver targeted content and group and individual support for the health and wellness of the healthcare workforce.” Developing the App The COBALT app will integrate multiple data sources from its users, including self-report measures, video analyzed by the Facial Action Coding System for emotion recognition, and audio transcripts analyzed by natural language processing for phrases tied to mental illness. “The app will quickly and efficiently categorize levels of mental health using machine learning and AI and direct users to personalized resources,” explains Dr. Gallagher. Active data will be collected at baseline and weekly, with passive data recorded via cell phone sensors and collected continuously. Once the models are trained on user-specific data, the goal is to use the app to detect, assess, and in some cases treat a number of mental health and wellness risks. “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing.” “Incorporating COBALT into workflows could assist an organization in creating a culture of resilience and mental wellbeing,” says Dr. Gallagher. Early Success with a Web Platform Before joining NYU Langone, Dr. Gallagher played a key role in the development of a separate but related web platform, also called COBALT, while on the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania. The new app will build upon the success of the existing web platform, which is currently available to all NYU Langone staff. Dr. Gallagher emphasizes that with the integration of AI, the new app will be far more technologically advanced than the current web platform, which relies primarily on self-report measures. “All employees have access to the COBALT web platform, where they can complete wellness evaluations, and sign up for group resiliency sessions, mindfulness workshops, and other in-person offerings,” Dr. Gallagher says. She notes that users can engage with the platform as much or as little as they like. Everything that they view or engage with is anonymous and not connected to their name or identity, unless they voluntarily enter their personal information. Since its debut at NYU Langone, the COBALT web platform has been used by nearly 2,700 employees. Among these users, more than 500 have participated in clinical screening sessions. “Several thousand employees have utilized the web platform,” Dr. Gallagher says. “It is designed and intended to support, protect, and enhance the mental wellbeing and health of our employees.” Future Applications Although the initial phase of the DARPA project is focused on healthcare workers, Dr. Gallagher and her team plan to apply the app version of COBALT to address the mental health needs of other at-risk groups, such as active-duty military. “Long-term, we’d like to further develop the COBALT app as an evidence-based, scalable, mobile solution,” she says. “Leveraging this dataset may provide additional insights for personalizing the delivery of microinterventions that enhance wellbeing.” Thea Gallagher, PsyD, is a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the Department of Psychiatry. She specializes in prolonged exposure therapy for post-traumatic stress disorder, exposure and response prevention for obsessive compulsive disorder, and cognitive–behavioral treatments for other mental health illnesses. Latest in Psychiatry Dr. Charles Marmar on the Promise of Precision Medicine in Psychiatry The department chair discusses the current mental health awakening, his research on PTSD, and the future of psychiatry treatment. How Psilocybin May Modify Brain Function in Alcohol Use Disorder Source: Getty Images A recent study published in Scientific Reports has uncovered new insights into how psilocybin, the psychoactive constituent of magic mushrooms, may modify brain function in people with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Emerging evidence—including a first-of-its-kind double-blind placebo-controlled trial led by NYU Langone Health researchers and collaborators—has indicated that psilocybin could help sustain a reduction in alcohol consumption when paired with psychotherapy. The mechanism by which psilocybin therapy works on the brains of patients with AUD is still unclear. Functional MRI (fMRI) has offered initial clues into psilocybin’s modulating effects in nonaddiction populations. The new study is the first to explore the neural mechanisms of psilocybin-assisted therapy in AUD, according to the authors. “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction.” Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD “Our findings could pave the way for future hypotheses about psilocybin’s mechanism of action for disorders of addiction,” says , director of the Center for Psychedelic Medicine, part of NYU Langone’s Department of Psychiatry Mapping Networks Affected by Psilocybin The latest study was conducted within the framework of the larger double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, and led by Dr. Bogenschutz and Broc Pagni, PhD , a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist. The researchers collected fMRI data from 11 adult patients with AUD. Participants completed task-based blood-oxygen-level-dependent fMRI two to three days before, and one to two days after, receiving either 25 mg of psilocybin or 50 mg of diphenhydramine. During the psilocybin session, participants were presented with images of alcoholic beverages and pictures designed to evoke positive, negative, and neutral emotional responses. Across both alcohol and emotional cues, the researchers found that psilocybin increased activity in the medial and lateral prefrontal cortex and left caudate, and decreased activity in the insular, motor, temporal, parietal, and occipital cortices and in the cerebellum. They also reported that in the case of positive cues, psilocybin increased participants’ right hippocampus activity and decreased left hippocampus activity. In response to negative cues, psilocybin increased activity in the supramarginal gyrus. Interpreting the Results According to Dr. Pagni, greater engagement of the prefrontal cortex and caudate and disengagement of the insula, motor, and cerebellar areas might suggest that psilocybin enhances executive control and diminishes craving. However, he notes that fMRI tasks that tap into these specific processes are needed to support these inferences. He further explains that the results suggest psilocybin’s effects on neural responses are largely consistent across stimulus type—an unexpected finding. “Consistently overlapping regions could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood stabilizing effect.” “We were expecting to see deactivation across brain regions that are hyperactive while viewing alcohol cues in AUD, but this was not the case,” says Dr. Pagni. “Consistently overlapping neural responses across the stimulus types could reflect alterations to the saliency of visual stimuli, affective processing, or a general mood-stabilizing effect.” While the findings are intriguing, the researchers caution that these data are preliminary, and warrant replication in larger and more diverse samples before they can be accepted as generalizable. Opportunities for Intervention The investigators note that future research in this area holds potential to elucidate the etiology of AUD, and more broadly, identify novel neural targets to facilitate precision-based treatment for disorders of addiction. While medications exist for AUD, the effect sizes of currently approved treatments are small and limited to specific subpopulations, Dr. Bogenschutz explains. The team plans to conduct a larger trial with more robust analyses and end points—continuing to map the neural mechanisms of psilocybin in response to alcohol and emotional cues, but also tracking clinical outcomes over time. “We believe this trial will address significant questions regarding psilocybin’s effects on global brain functioning,” says Dr. Bogenschutz, “and serve as a valuable resource for psilocybin-based addiction research in the future.” Disclosures Dr. Bogenschutz is named as inventor on patent applications relating to the use of psilocybin for AUD, but has waived all rights and has no prospect of financial benefit. Michael P. Bogenschutz, MD, is a professor of psychiatry and the director of the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research centers around pharmacologic and psychosocial interventions to treat substance use disorders and other mental health conditions. Psychiatry, Cognitive Neuroscience Broc Pagni, PhD, is a postdoctoral cognitive neuroscientist at the NYU Langone Center for Psychedelic Medicine. His research focuses on identifying therapeutic psychological and neural mechanisms of psychedelic-assisted treatments. Conferences & Events NYU Langone Health Presenters at the APA 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health psychiatrists who joined international colleagues in New York City, May 4 to 8. Toddler with Alagille Syndrome Bounces Back After Split Liver Transplant The patient at his third birthday celebration. Source: NYU Langone Health A toddler with end-stage liver disease secondary to Alagille syndrome experienced a smooth recovery after surgeons at NYU Langone Health teamed up to perform a successful split liver transplant. The 2-year-old patient was referred to the for evaluation by Adam Griesemer, MD Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD , attending surgeons on the case. “The patient’s recovery has been remarkable,” says Dr. Griesemer. “His quality of life has improved far sooner than would have been expected, and he remains playful and full of energy.” Nadia Ovchinsky, MD Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology , had been following this transplant patient since infancy. Alagille syndrome, an autosomal dominant disorder that carries a mortality rate of up to 10 percent, runs in his family. “The degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” “Liver transplant was a challenging decision for this family,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. “However, the degree of his liver disease, intractable itching, and severe failure to thrive were clear indicators that a liver transplant was needed.” Success Despite Risks The team anticipated an elevated risk of transplant-related complications due to the complex presentation of Alagille syndrome and the patient’s poor nutritional status. Despite months of aggressive supplementation, the patient consistently remained well below the first percentile for both height and weight. In addition to significant failure to thrive, he had renal tubular acidosis, pulmonary artery stenosis, fat-soluble vitamin deficiencies, and severe intractable pruritis. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” “We had a thorough discussion with the patient’s family, addressing the specific risks related to the split liver transplant and the potential advantages,” says Dr. Torres-Hernandez. “Our team is well known for successfully executing these complicated procedures.” The Split Liver Transplant After the patient was listed for transplantation, the team waited for the first appropriate organ offer. Within a month, the patient was offered a healthy adult liver for transplant. The organ would be too big for the recipient unless it was split into two, allowing both halves to be used for two different patients. For the pediatric recipient, the split graft was a left lateral lobe with a single left hepatic vein. For the adult patient, the split graft was the right lobe. “About 50 percent of liver transplants performed on children under the age of eight involve splitting a deceased donor’s liver,” Dr. Griesemer adds. “Split liver transplantation is an effective strategy to reduce the donor organ shortage and waitlist mortality, especially for pediatric patients.” During the surgery, the patient’s liver was completely removed. The left lateral segment graft was then transplanted to the recipient. “The size of the donor’s left lateral segment was almost exactly the same size as a normal liver for the age of the recipient,” says Dr. Griesemer. A Flawless Procedure After restoring blood flow to the transplant, the liver had excellent perfusion and immediately started to function well. According to Dr. Griesemer, the procedure’s success can be attributed to the collaboration and hard work of multiple team members, including surgeons, anesthesiologists, surgical assistants, scrub nurses, and leaders outside of the operating room. “The procedure was executed flawlessly,” says Dr. Griesemer. “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” “Going in, we were confident in our team’s approach, and we planned this well.” Nine months after surgery, the patient’s recovery has been excellent, marked by consistent improvements in clinical and functional measures. “The patient’s quality of life has returned to normal, and he is meeting developmental milestones as expected,” says Dr. Ovchinsky. In the coming months, NYU Langone will launch a new program to improve care for those with Alagille syndrome, offering specialized support for both pediatric and adult patients. Dr. Ovchinsky, who will lead the initiative, explains that specialized care will include experts in hepatology, surgery, nephrology, and cardiology. Transplant Surgery, Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Surgery Adam Griesemer, MD, is an associate professor of surgery and the surgical director of the Pediatric Transplant Institute. He specializes in pediatric liver transplant surgery. Alejandro Torres-Hernandez, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of surgery. He specializes in laparoscopic liver surgery and liver transplantation. Pediatric Hepatology Nadia Ovchinsky, MD, is a professor of pediatrics and director of the Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology and Hepatology. She specializes in pediatric liver diseases, including biliary atresia, Alagille syndrome, and acute and chronic liver failure. Latest in Pediatrics Epilepsy Expert Strives to Improve Access to Surgical Care Dr. Cigdem Akman, medical director of the Pediatric Epilepsy Surgery Program, on optimizing treatment for kids—and winning their parents' trust. When Sacrocolpopexy Is the Best Choice for Post-Cystectomy Prolapse CT scan of the patient's Indiana Pouch. Source: NYU Langone Health As long-term survival following treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) continues to improve, urogynecologists may more frequently encounter post-cystectomy prolapse. Therefore, it is crucial to understand treatment options and align them with a patient’s lifestyle and sexual health priorities. In this Case of the Month, we describe a young, physically and sexually active patient with post-cystectomy prolapse who successfully underwent robotic sacrocolpopexy. The procedure carried risks due to her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesions. But collaboration with reconstructive urology made for a safe and effective surgery, and the patient continues to experience symptomatic relief nearly four years later. Below, we detail the procedure and why it was the best option. We also discuss the unique considerations of all available treatments, including vaginal pessaries, colpocleisis, and native tissue repair. We hope this case encourages other providers to consider that when sacrocolpopexy is the best option, a team-based approach can deliver success. Case Highlights: A 53-year-old MIBC survivor with vaginal protrusion was dissatisfied with a vaginal pessary and sought surgical intervention. Sacrocolpopexy was elected due to its durability and the patient’s desire to maintain sexual function. Urogynecology and reconstructive urology performed a successful procedure, which required unique port placement to accommodate distorted anatomy and extensive enterolysis due to peritoneal adhesive disease. As bladder cancer survivorship improves, the prevalence of post-cystectomy prolapse may rise; understanding treatment options and their relative risks and benefits is paramount. Background: Post-Cystectomy Prolapse In the female patient, radical cystectomy for MIBC traditionally involves en bloc resection of the bladder, urethra, uterus, cervix, bilateral adnexa, and anterior vaginal wall. This results in an anterior vaginal defect, which is closed by mobilizing a portion of the posterior vagina to create a vascularized flap. While reproductive organ sparing (ROS) cystectomy has gained popularity for patients with clinically localized disease, it is not yet considered standard of care, and most urologic oncologists report they do not routinely perform ROS cystectomy, even in eligible patients. A necessary consequence of radical cystectomy is that crucial vaginal support structures are excised or disrupted including DeLancey’s level I and level II support (see DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support below). After their operation, patients therefore have only distal vaginal support, likely putting them at increased risk for the development of prolapse. Because prolapse in patients with a history of radical cystectomy is poorly reported in the literature, the true incidence is unknown, but may be as high as 23 percent. DeLancey’s Three Levels of Support In 1992, Dr. John DeLancey described three distinct anatomic structures thought to be responsible for vaginal support. Level I includes the cardinal/uterosacral ligament complex and supports the vaginal apex. Level II supports the mid-vagina via the endopelvic fascia and its attachments to the lateral pelvic sidewalls at the arcus tendineus fascia pelvis. Level III provides distal vaginal support and is composed of vaginal attachments to the perineal membrane and perineal body. Dr. DeLancey’s framework remains foundational to understanding the anatomic structures, whose failure may contribute to the development of pelvic organ prolapse. Case Presentation The 53-year-old patient presented to the urogynecology clinic in 2020 complaining of bothersome vaginal protrusion. She had a history of two pregnancies (both cesarean deliveries), was sexually active, and a former smoker (>30 pack years). In 2018, she was treated for MIBC with radical cystectomy/urethrectomy, hysterectomy, bilateral salpingectomy, flap vaginoplasty, and continent cutaneous urinary diversion (Indiana Pouch). She was initially fitted with a ring with support pessary but was unhappy with this method of symptom relief and desired surgical intervention. The options for surgical management were reviewed in detail, with the understanding that outcomes data in this specific population are extremely sparse. The patient worked a physically demanding job and wished to retain the capacity for vaginal intercourse, making her a poor candidate for native tissue repair and ineligible for obliterative repair such as colpocleisis. Vaginally placed mesh products, which would have allowed for prolapse repair without necessitating peritoneal access, had been removed from the market by the FDA one year before. Ultimately, mesh-based repair with sacrocolpopexy was selected for its improved durability; however, this approach carried known risks, particularly given her surgically distorted anatomy and anticipated peritoneal adhesive disease. Robotic Sacrocolpopexy A multidisciplinary approach was planned. Urogynecology partnered with reconstructive urology, the service that had performed her continent cutaneous urinary diversion, in order to ensure safe peritoneal access and lysis of adhesions. She also had a known parastomal hernia, and concomitant repair was planned. Her Indiana Pouch, which was located on the right, occupied most of the right lower quadrant, requiring planned adjustments to robotic port placement (Figure 1). Figure 1: A CT scan of the patient’s abdomen/pelvis with IV contrast demonstrating location and size of the Indiana Pouch. Overlaid with approximate location of robotic ports. Source: NYU Langone Health Sagittal imaging suggested the pouch would be adherent to the anterior abdominal wall and would therefore not impact sacral dissection or mesh placement along the right pelvic sidewall (Figure 2). Her stoma was located in the midline, at the umbilicus. Figure 2: Sagittal imaging demonstrating the Indiana Pouch located along the patient’s right anterior abdominal wall. Source: NYU Langone Health After induction of general anesthesia, a 14 French foley catheter was placed through the stoma to drain the neobladder intraoperatively. Peritoneal access was gained through an open approach at Palmer’s Point and allowed careful inspection of the peritoneal cavity, which revealed marked adhesive disease around the Indiana Pouch and throughout the anterior abdomen and pelvis. The sacral promontory and right pelvic sidewall were relatively spared. Additional robotic ports were placed a minimum of 8 cm from one another, all on the left side of the abdomen to avoid injury to the Indiana Pouch (Figure 1). The reconstructive urology team performed extensive lysis of adhesions to mobilize the small bowel out of the pelvis, expose the vagina, and expose the stoma for parastomal hernia repair. The small bowel was so densely adherent to the vaginal apex that an intentional vaginotomy (colpotomy) was required, which was repaired with absorbable suture in two layers before mesh placement. Anterior vaginal dissection was not required, given the absence of the bladder and urethra. The rectovaginal space was dissected in the usual fashion; this space was not significantly scarred. An ultra-lightweight Y-shaped polypropylene mesh was introduced and attached to the vagina with interrupted CV-2 Gore-Tex sutures. After dissection of the peritoneum and fibroadipose tissue from the presacral space, CV-2 Gore-Tex was used to suspend the mesh to the anterior longitudinal ligament overlying the upper third of the S1 vertebra. Reperitonealization of the mesh was attempted in order to minimize the risk of further bowel adhesive disease. The sacral arm of the mesh was covered with peritoneum without difficulty. Given the prior radical anterior pelvic surgery, we were not able to sufficiently mobilize peritoneum to cover the vaginal portion of the mesh. A flap of fibroadipose tissue from the lower anterior abdominal wall was mobilized and used to cover the majority of the mesh. A surgical adhesion barrier was placed over the remaining exposed mesh. The patient had an uneventful recovery and remains free from prolapse symptoms and without evidence of recurrent bladder cancer nearly four years later. Discussion In this case of post-cystectomy prolapse, the patient expressed dissatisfaction with a vaginal pessary and sought a surgical intervention that would have little impact on her sexual health. Sacrocolpopexy provided a durable treatment and was successfully performed using an interdisciplinary approach to address the altered anatomy. The case illustrates why selecting an approach to treatment for pelvic organ prolapse in a patient with prior radical cystectomy requires an understanding of patient-specific risk factors, lifestyle, and symptom relief priorities. Data specific to this patient population is extremely limited, but virtually all treatment options have unique considerations. Vaginal Pessaries: All patients with prolapse should be counseled about the safety and availability of vaginal pessaries for symptomatic relief, and those with a history of radical cystectomy are no exception. The two measurements most reliably associated with the ability to successfully use a vaginal pessary are the genital hiatus (GH) and the total vaginal length. Patients with a short vagina and wide GH will not be able to accommodate a pessary large enough so that it would not be at risk for expulsion during physical activity or Valsalva. Following radical cystectomy with flap vaginoplasty, the vaginal length or width may be restricted, such that successful pessary fitting is not possible. However, the likelihood of successful pessary fitting in this population has not been studied. Colpocleisis: Obliterative prolapse repair with colpocleisis is a viable surgical option for patients with a history of radical cystectomy, but it is only appropriate for those who are certain they are not interested in future vaginally penetrative intercourse. Colpocleisis has extremely high success rates and does not require peritoneal entry, so it is therefore an excellent option for patients with complicated surgical abdomens. Long-term recurrence, patient satisfaction, and regret rates are favorable. Native Tissue Repair: Native tissue repair, such as the uterosacral ligament suspension and sacrospinous fixation, are plagued by high prolapse recurrence rates, and it stands to reason that durability may be further compromised following radical cystectomy due to the absence of pubocervical fascia. Vaginally placed mesh materials for repair of prolapse promised a more durable option for vaginal repair and have been performed with favorable outcomes in women with a history of radical cystectomy. However, studies of vaginal mesh for prolapse ultimately failed to demonstrate improved efficacy over native tissue repair, contributing to the FDA’s 2019 decision to halt all sales, distribution, and marketing of vaginal mesh for prolapse. Sacrocolpopexy: Sacrocolpopexy is, of course, potentially complicated by the risks associated with intraperitoneal surgery in a complicated surgical abdomen. Risks include injury to the neobladder, catheterizable channel, or transplanted ureters. There is also a risk of injury to small or large bowel or other intraperitoneal structures due to adhesive disease. However, sacrocolpopexy may present the most durable option for patients who wish to retain the ability for penetrative intercourse. In conclusion, treatment options for prolapse carry unique benefits and risks for this population and patients should be counseled that there is a paucity of safety and efficacy data to guide management. Ultimately, choice of prolapse treatment should be highly individualized based on an understanding of the patient’s anatomy and overall health priorities. References 1. Gupta N, et al. Clin Genitourin Cancer . 2023;21(4):e236-e241. DOI 2. DeLancey JO. Am J Obstet Gynecol . 1992;166(6 Pt 1):1717-1728. 3. Lipetskaia L, et al. Female Pelvic Med Reconstr Surg . 2021;27(4):e501-e504. 4. Richter LA, et al. . 2021;156:e20-e29. 5. Clemons JL, et al. . 2004;190(2):345-350. 6. FitzGerald MP, et al. Int Urogynecol J Pelvic Floor Dysfunct . 2006;17(3):261-271. 7. Song X, et al. . 2016;23(6):621-625. 8. Jelovsek JE, et al. . 2018;319(15):1554-1565. 9. Graefe F, et al. Int Urogynecol J . 2013;24(8):1407-1409. 10. Kuwata T, et al. IJU Case Rep . 2022;5(5):389-392. 11. Urogynecologic surgical mesh implants. U.S. Food and Drug Administration. https://www.fda.gov/medical-devices/implants-and-prosthetics/urogynecologic-surgical-mesh-implants . Accessed 8/22/2024. 12. Lee D, et al. Curr Urol Rep . 2019;20(11):71. Lauren E. Stewart, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and obstetrics and gynecology. Her clinical practice focuses on pelvic floor disorders such as pelvic organ prolapse, urinary incontinence and the sequelae of obstetric trauma. Latest in Urology Case of the Month TURED for Midline Prostatic Cyst Dr. Sadeghi-Nejad used the technique to treat a 28-year-old’s cyst-related infertility and ejaculatory symptoms. Jelmyto Helps Patient with Single Kidney Avoid Dialysis For Dr. Katie Murray’s 91-year-old patient with UTUC, Jelmyto provided confidence in cancer control after tumor resection. Boosting Erectile Function with a Healthy Plant-Based Diet Dr. Stacy Loeb shares how her patient was able to discontinue tadalafil after eliminating animal products from his diet. Four Minutes to Prostate Cancer Diagnosis Source: Getty Images. Prostate cancer diagnoses currently rely on time-intensive methodologies. Most biopsies are collected in an office and then sent off to a lab for processing before stained slides finally land on a pathologist’s desk for analysis. These workflows can take several days, causing critical decisions regarding treatment to be delayed. If pathologic analysis of prostate tissue could happen in real time, clinical decisions could be made within a matter of minutes, potentially improving oncologic outcomes. A team at NYU Langone Health and its is working to make this a reality. Their new research reveals that combining stimulated Raman histology (SRH)—a breakthrough in optics that allows for the imaging of fresh tissue—with artificial intelligence (AI) could allow clinicians to accurately detect prostate cancer in just under four minutes —without the need for pathological processing and interpretation. The effort is being led by urologic oncologist , and AI expert Daniel A. Orringer, MD . Dr. Orringer, a neurosurgeon at NYU Langone’s , is also pioneering the methodology for use in brain tumor imaging and diagnosis molecular classification of glioma “The possible applications are numerous.” “This approach marks an important step forward in prostate cancer diagnostics,” Dr. Taneja says. “The possible applications are numerous.” Pairing SRH and AI Dr. Taneja and his team, including