“Those biomarkers could also help us determine which patients would be best suited for which clinical trials, potentially benefiting both the individual and the search for better cancer treatments.” Beyond DNA “Typos” To find such markers, Dr. Imielinski and his team look beyond the small “typos” in DNA, which is what many standard clinical assays and algorithms use to detect and characterize tumor cells. Instead, they investigate more-complex changes, such as rearrangements, copy number alterations, and the folding patterns of abnormal genomes within the nucleus of tumor cells. “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes,” he says. “Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” “It’s amazing that cancer cells can even survive with such deranged genomes. Learning how they do so will help us find new ways to detect and destroy them.” recent Nature study , for example, Dr. Imielinski’s lab used whole-genome sequencing to investigate the mechanisms behind homologous recombination (HR) deficiency, which is associated with faulty DNA repair. As a result, HR deficiency—and therefore susceptibility to certain DNA-damaging drugs—can be diagnosed by identifying characteristic patterns of mutations around the genome. Analyzing the genomes of thousands of BRCA1- and BRCA2-deficient cancers, the researchers identified a previously unknown class of HR-deficiency-enriched rearrangements that can only be detected by whole-genome sequencing. Identifying tumors with these rearrangement patterns indicates specific backup repair mechanisms that may point to new therapeutic strategies for HR-deficient cancers. Translating Laboratory Findings into Clinical Breakthroughs Eventually, whole-genome-based methods could lead to more comprehensive molecular testing of tumors and to new drug targets, enabling personalized therapies to become standard of care for a wide variety of cancers. A whole-genome approach could also bring liquid biopsies that are more sensitive and specific, allowing earlier detection of metastases or relapses—and surer judgments of when treatment can be safely ended—than is possible with current tests. One reason for optimism, Dr. Imielinski observes, is the increasing affordability of whole-genome sequencing. “Until recently, the cost of sequencing a cancer genome was $5,000 to $10,000,” he says. “Thanks largely to expiring patents, costs have decreased fivefold, and they could fall below $100 in the next five years.” To make whole-genome cancer testing a practical reality, however, such assays and their reports will have to be tailored to the day-to-day needs of clinicians and healthcare systems. For this task, Dr. Imielinski and his colleagues can draw on deep institutional experience. In 2021, the Food and Drug Administration approved the NYU Langone Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test , a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in 607 genes simultaneously. Designed by Matija Snuderl, MD , director of molecular pathology in the Department of Pathology , the test converts complex data into a report that includes a suggested diagnosis and recommended treatments. It matches patients with approved therapies for a variety of solid tumors, with promising experimental treatments, and with ongoing clinical trials. And it seamlessly integrates with electronic medical records. Dr. Imielinski is working with Dr. Snuderl and other members of the Genome PACT team to follow a similar route to bring whole-genome-based tumor tests and liquid biopsies into routine clinical practice at NYU Langone. “In the United States, no other academic health system has taken the leap to this paradigm,” he notes. “We want to show that it works and to provide evidence that other people can follow.” Marcin Imielinski, MD, PhD, is an associate professor in the Department of Pathology and director of the Cancer Genomic Research Center. His research interests focus on expanding the clinical utility of whole-genome sequencing in oncology, including the development of software for analyzing and interpreting whole genomes. Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, and Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health The rapidly advancing field of molecular oncology has given researchers and clinicians increasingly detailed views of the drivers of tumor development and progression. NYU Langone Health’s new Center for Molecular Oncology aims to push the envelope on the standard of cancer care by ensuring that every patient receives liquid biopsies, enabling their tumor DNA to be sequenced. The molecular data will give clinicians at critical access to diagnostic information as well as more granular characterizations that can help them match each cancer to the best available therapies. Here, Shridar Ganesan, MD, PhD, an expert in cancer biology and DNA repair and the inaugural director of the Center for Molecular Oncology, and , Perlmutter Cancer Center’s director, discuss the new initiative’s unique aims and potential to scale up personalized cancer therapies across the medical center. What are your principal aims for the new center? The aim of this is to bring the ongoing advances in molecular analysis of cancers and the application of targeted therapies to NYU Langone, and use that as part of our standard approach to treating every patient with cancer. By integrating this new molecular information with multiple levels of data—including pathology, histology, radiology, and patient history—we can address key features like tumor behavior and response to therapy. In addition, we can clarify the basic biology and better understand how we classify and organize diseases to advance the field and develop new therapeutics. A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care.” Dr. Kimmelman: A big part of the uniqueness of this is the scale: for every patient, we are going to use liquid biopsies to follow their cancers over time as the standard of care. At Perlmutter Cancer Center, we have 11 sites. Regardless of where patients enter our system, they’ll have access to this expertise. How are you planning to do this? The goal is to develop an initial molecular profile of each tumor, while using serial liquid biopsies, DNA analysis, and other methods to monitor for changes. We’ll use the data not just for a diagnosis classification, but also to monitor for relapse, recurrence, and response to treatment. NYU Langone has deep strength in understanding tumor evolution by looking at the large volume of data coming from these molecular tools. The medical center also has the deep scientific expertise to use these findings to better understand tumor biology in the lab and do appropriate trials in the clinic. One of the amazing things about this center and the exercise we’re doing is that once you create both the physical and the IT infrastructure, every new test can automatically be implemented into this paradigm. Initially, there’s going to be a heavy reliance on liquid biopsies and DNA sequencing, with some transcriptomics. These are the techniques that are readily available and rapid. But we’re going to incorporate new tests as they become available, whether developed by our investigators or from other centers, and that next generation of tests will be far more sensitive and specific. How do you integrate all of that information and scale it up across a large medical center? Infrastructure is a huge part of this: it’s everything from computing power to data storage to the ability to make sure we have the consent of the patient to use all of their clinical information and integrate it into the medical record. Fortunately, we have an integrated medical record at all of our centers and we’re fully interconnected, giving us the foundation for further expansion. Artistic depiction of DNA structure alongside sequencing data. Source: Getty Images We also have a cancer data hub within Perlmutter Cancer Center. We’re recruiting a new leader to help expand it, because as you can imagine, we’re going to have a lot of information that will need to be integrated and utilized for diagnostics, other clinical purposes, and research. That means building up both the computing and the personnel infrastructure. What we want to create is a living dataset as opposed to a museum of stuff from the past. It’s like looking at a pressed flower versus a flower growing; it’s a very different approach. And now we have the technology to make this possible. It is essential to do this in an equitable and comprehensive fashion across the system, ensuring fair access for all as we take that next step to advance patient care. So how might this molecular characterization advance and transform cancer care? Right now, comprehensive molecular characterization of tumors is often used in the advanced setting to help guide treatments after everything else has failed. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis and classification of cancer for every patient. We want to make the molecular profile part of the up-front diagnosis.” Once you understand the tumor’s molecular profile, you can do sophisticated studies like tumor-informed cell-free DNA (cfDNA) analysis to look at which patients are likely to experience cancer recurrence. This can be done even when the tumor is in an early stage or after it has been surgically removed. We can also identify who truly benefits—and when—from adjuvant therapy. We don’t know the answers to all of these questions yet, but we can start asking them. Dr. Kimmelman : A big part of our center is the expertise that Shridar brings in the molecular interpretation of the tests. We have tumor boards where we discuss changes in the CAT and MRI scans and we look at the pathology. But equally, if not more important, is taking this molecular data and integrating it into the overall picture. Shridar is going to lead center-wide molecular tumor boards for all of our physicians, where we can take this data and identify clinically relevant changes in the mutation profile. We’re going to be able to rapidly match patients to the best-available targeted therapies, but also to a suite of clinical trials tailored to their cancer’s molecular profile. Shridar, the team, and I are already developing a program where—in a single day—a patient with cancer can have their tumor biopsied, receive a pathological and molecular diagnosis, and leave with an oral medicine if there is a drug available for the target. We’re taking this to the next level. Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD, is a professor of radiation oncology, the Anita Steckler and Joseph Steckler Chair of the Department of Radiation Oncology, and director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. His research centers on the biology of pancreatic cancer, with a focus on the metabolic processes fueling their growth. A Call for Mastering Transperineal Drainage Dr. Fredrick Gulmi shares how the technique resolved a patient’s severe prostatic abscess faster than antibiotics alone. Optilume Success After Urethroplasty Dr. Nnenaya Mmonu highlights a recurrent stricture after urethroplasty that was successfully treated with Optilume. Aquablation: The Versatile ‘Swiss Army Knife’ Dr. Christopher Kelly presents a case of a 160-gram benign prostate hyperplasia treated using Aquablation. More from Urology Ninety-One Percent Success with Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation The largest five-year oncological outcomes study for primary PGCA reveals excellent cancer control. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the 2024 AUA Annual Meeting See the urology experts from NYU Langone Health who joined their international colleagues in San Antonio, May 3 to 6. Rare Disorder Frames Unique Care Needs in Pelvic Organ Prolapse Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, affecting connective tissue, complicates how urogynecologists treat a common condition. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Urology Ranked #2 (tied) in Urology Top 5 in NIH funding (Source: Blue Ridge) Pioneers in MRI to evaluate prostate cancer Subscribe for Updates in Urology Care for Pulmonary Sarcoidosis Pulmonary sarcoidosis, also called lung sarcoidosis, causes inflammatory cells in the lungs called granulomas, which can affect lung function. Granulomas usually heal and disappear on their own. But when they don’t heal, the lung tissue can remain inflamed, and become scarred and stiff. This condition, called pulmonary fibrosis, changes the structure of the lungs and can affect your breathing. Bronchiectasis—in which pockets form in the air tubes of the lung and become infected—can also occur, though it is rare. To make an appointment with one of our pulmonologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Patients with lung sarcoidosis usually have shortness of breath, dry cough, chest pain, wheezing, and similar symptoms. Our pulmonologists, part of NYU Langone’s , evaluate your symptoms and may perform breathing tests, chest X-rays, CT scans, and other tests to confirm the diagnosis. Your pulmonary doctor may also choose to perform a bronchoscopy and biopsy of the lung. This is a way of sampling the lung tissue through a thin tube that is inserted through the mouth. On rare occasions, your doctor may need to perform a surgical lung biopsy to make the diagnosis. Once the diagnosis is confirmed, your doctor conducts an examination to make sure that sarcoidosis has not affected other parts of your body, such as the heart, skin, or eyes. Based on this evaluation and consultation with other sarcoidosis specialists, your doctor recommends a course of treatment. Not all patients with sarcoidosis need treatment. For the majority, the inflammation heals on its own. If you do need additional treatment, which may include pills or injections, your doctor will discuss it with you and other providers involved in your care. Care for Cardiac Sarcoidosis Our specialists at NYU Langone’s Sarcoidosis Program provide expert care for cardiac sarcoidosis, a serious condition that affects heart rhythms and function. Cardiac sarcoidosis occurs when groups of white blood cells, called granulomas, accumulate in the heart muscle. Cardiac sarcoidosis does not always cause symptoms, but when it does, it can affect the ability of the heart to pump blood as well as cause both abnormally fast and slow heart rhythms. To make an appointment with one of our cardiologists trained in sarcoidosis, please call Symptoms of cardiac sarcoidosis include shortness of breath, swelling in the legs, dizziness, light-headedness, and loss of consciousness. It can be difficult to diagnose cardiac sarcoidosis, which is often mistaken for other forms of heart failure. Our heart experts, which include specialists in advanced heart failure , electrophysiology, and cardiac imaging, work together to identify cardiac sarcoidosis. Usually, a biopsy is performed to verify the diagnosis of sarcoidosis outside of the heart, followed by an PET/CT scan , echocardiograms, and rhythm monitoring, which are used to confirm cardiac involvement. Based on the diagnosis, we plan your individualized treatment strategy, to help reverse as well as prevent any further heart damage. Treatment includes standard heart failure medications as well as varying immunosuppressives, which are medications that help prevent the immune system from damaging healthy cells or tissue. To prevent dangerous arrhythmias, we may also recommend cardiac devices or ablations , the use of extreme heat or cold to destroy tissue causing the irregular heartbeat. We work with other specialists in the Sarcoidosis Program to provide comprehensive treatment for each individual. If needed, we refer patients to the . We are also conducting clinical research to advance care in cardiac sarcoidosis. Extending the Cardioprotective Effects of Colchicine For high-risk patients with gout, colchicine could lower the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events. Unveiling the Origins of Early Lupus Nephritis Multiomics is poised to unravel the disease’s early pathogenesis. Inclusive Study Tests Safety of Shingles Vaccination in Patients with Lupus NYU Langone specialists lead multi-institutional study to clarify safety of Shingrix vaccine in patients with SLE. Intestinal Bloom of Gut Bacterium Linked to Lupus Flares Study links symptom flare-ups with a specific gut bacterium and inflammation-associated genes. Safely Stopping Hydroxychloroquine in Older Patients with Lupus A clinical trial is set to resolve key uncertainties about curtailing treatment for patients in lupus remission. Altering the Gut Microbiome May Aid Response to Drug in RA A pilot study is assessing whether gut microbes may predict and impact methotrexate effectiveness in rheumatoid arthritis. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Rheumatologist Dr. Jose U. Scher discusses his vision for a translational research collaborative. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rheumatology Ranked #9 in Rheumatology $29M in new research project value (2022) 166 faculty members “Most Talked About” in SLE Research Two studies led by Peter M. Izmirly, MD , were among Arthritis & Rheumatology ’s “Most Talked About Articles of 2021”: “Prevalence of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus in the United States: Estimates From a Meta-Analysis of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Lupus Registries.” “Evaluation of Immune Response and Disease Status in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus Patients Following SARS–CoV-2 Vaccination.” Subscribe for Updates in Rheumatology Building ‘Digital Phenotypes’ of Stress-Related Disorders Researchers harness artificial intelligence to better detect, prevent, and treat burnout and other pathologies. Sleep Disorders Offer a Potential Target for Alzheimer’s Disease Prevention Research explores the link between obstructive sleep apnea, social determinants of health, and cognitive decline. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Psychiatry High Performing in Psychiatry #5 rated residency program (Doximity) #6 in NIH research funding (Blue Ridge) Subscribe for Updates in Psychiatry Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Permanent implant system in patient with transfemoral amputation increases comfort, mobility, and limb strength. How One Institution’s Heritage Embodies the History of Orthopedics A longtime leader in surgical innovation, NYU Langone orthopedics traces its origins to pioneers of the field. Free Flap Reconstruction: Is Surgical Delay Okay? Meta-analysis confirms importance of surgery within first three days but reveals a nuanced time–outcome relationship thereafter. Computer-Assisted Navigation Is Safe & Effective for TSA Analysis of over 16,000 cases finds CAN has high accuracy and reliability, low complication rates for glenoid implantation. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement A higher risk of inpatient falls was tied to length of stay and revision rates, not to adductor canal blocks or tourniquets. Biologic Adjuvants Promote Healing of Ankle Cartilage Lesions Multiple biologic augmentation strategies can aid mechanical robustness after cartilage injuries in the ankle joint. Predicting Discharge Destination after Joint Replacement A new tool for predicting discharge to home versus inpatient facilities passes validation. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Orthopedics Ranked #3 in Orthopedics 34K+ orthopedic procedures performed annually orthopedic physician experts on faculty Osseointegration Surgery Improves Connection Between Limb & Prosthesis Muscle Reinnervation & Osseoanchored Prosthesis Implantation In the initial surgery, the surgeons performed targeted muscle reinnervation to restore nerves to the patient’s thigh and reduce his pain and phantom limb syndrome symptoms. Then in the distal end of his residual femur bone, they implanted the titanium osseoanchored prosthetic system, and used a bone graft harvested from the femur’s intramedullary canal to allow the bone to fill the gap and grow into the implant. Surgeons reinnervate the patient’s thigh muscles and implant the titanium connector. Attachment of Titanium Abutment to Osseoanchored Prosthetic Fixture In the second surgery, surgeons attached a titanium abutment to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture through a skin aperture to allow a connection to the external prosthesis. A delicate soft tissue surgery and complex closure with skin graft around the metal abutment ensured proper tightening of the patient’s thigh musculature, fat, and skin, allowing it to heal down to the metal and bone and remove all gaps. A new titanium abutment attaches to the implanted osseoanchored prosthetic fixture in the patient’s thigh. Fitting of Full Prosthetic Device After a few months of healing, the patient was fitted for the full prosthetic device in May 2023. Physical therapy helped him gain strength and confidence and he began relying less on assistive devices. The technique, initially developed for dental implants, can be used for both upper and lower limb prosthetics, and may significantly expand the range of options after amputation due to bone tumors. At a follow-up, the patient tries on the full prosthetic system. Subscribe for Updates in Orthopedics The Foundations of Orthopedic Surgery: From the Hospital for Joint Diseases to NYU Langone For a rich compilation of the history of orthopedics at our institution, see this recent issue of the Bulletin of the Hospital for Joint Diseases New Partnership Aims to Improve Perinatal Outcomes in Ghana A unique collaboration is focused on improving health outcomes for pregnant women and newborn children. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated Soaring rates recorded in recent years may reflect a methodological artifact, according to a new study. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Obstetrics & Gynecology Top Obstetrics & Gynecology Programs in the U.S. #1 clinical trials program* *#1 clinical trials program for gynecologic cancer patient recruitment in NYS (and ranks #10 nationally, according to the GOG Foundation) Baby-Friendly Hospitals** **NYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Ruling Out Other Causes of Vaginal Pain After a woman in her early 40s presented to NYU Langone with persistent stress urinary incontinence and vaginal pain, Dr. Rosenblum and Dr. Kirpekar ruled out causes such as interstitial cystitis, persistent genital arousal disorder, endometriosis, and a vaginal or urinary tract infection. Damage along the tri-branched pudendal nerve’s route through the pelvis can mimic many other conditions. A diagram of the 3 main terminal branches of the pudendal nerve. Asking Questions Key to Differential Diagnosis for Pudendal Neuralgia With no imaging or clinical diagnostic tests for pudendal neuralgia, asking detailed questions may be the best way to help diagnose it. “Vaginal birth can trigger it, and I always ask about a history of physical and/or sexual trauma, especially if the patient remembers when the pain started,” Dr. Rosenblum says. Another clue: Sitting for long periods can compress the nerve and worsen the pain. Five main diagnostic criteria for pudendal neuralgia. Pudendal Nerve Block: Both Diagnostic and Therapeutic After tests and questions pointed toward pudendal neuralgia, Dr. Kirpekar used an X-ray-guided nerve block to successfully diagnose and treat the patient. If effective, patients should report immediate pain relief, particularly the burning sensation. On average, her patients find relief from the medication for 6 months or more. If indicated, a pudendal nerve block can offer rapid relief—and a definitive diagnosis. Subscribe for Updates in Obstetrics & Gynecology Supporting Coordinated, Accessible Care for Cerebral Palsy The Center for Children is one of the few programs to offer comprehensive care for children living with cerebral palsy. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital: A Leader in Advanced Pediatric Care Highest Level Children’s Surgery Verification from the American College of Surgeons Level IV NICU and Designated Regional Perinatal Center Comprehensive Transplant Care The only program in the tristate area to offer transplantation for all four solid organs: lungs, heart, liver, and kidneys. 1 of 4 2 of 4 3 of 4 4 of 4 Subscribe for Updates from Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Sign up for emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts. Reducing Revisits for Patients with Dementia Leaving the ED NIH-funded research seeks to improve emergency care and wellbeing of persons with dementia. Treating Lumbar Spinal Stenosis in Under One Hour The outpatient MILD procedure offers a promising alternative to open surgery. Nursing Home Nighttime Noise Levels: Lessons from COVID-19 NYC-area study ties increased noise to nighttime disturbances and altered sleep-wake cycles that accompanied new restrictions. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Geriatrics Ranked #2 in Geriatrics Est. 1981 as one of the first Geriatric Medicine fellowships in the U.S. NIA-funded Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center Subscribe for Updates in Geriatrics Atherosclerosis May Be a Risk Factor for IBD Population-based study finds increased odds of developing IBD among patients with a history of cardiovascular diagnoses. GI Hospitalist Model Gains Traction Impacts on inpatient care include reduced length of stay and an increase in general GI procedures. Uncovering the Role of GERD in Complex Pulmonary Disease Researchers pinpoint GERD as an underrecognized comorbidity that may exacerbate chronic lung conditions. A Leader in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Ranked #5 in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Best in New York State 1-year post liver transplant survival > 125 Whipple surgeries/year Robotic Whipple Offers Clear View of Complex Anatomy A Tumor Atop the IVC A 73-year-old patient presented to NYU Langone Health with a pancreatic tumor sitting directly above the IVC. The patient was scheduled for a Whipple and qualified for a robotic approach. Imaging reveals a pancreatic tumor (yellow) located near the inferior vena cava (IVC). 1 of 5 Setting Up for Success The success of the robotic approach adopted at NYU Langone starts with patient positioning and port setup. A split-leg position allows the surgical assistant more access to the abdomen, improving efficiency and reducing fatigue. The surgical team emphasizes the benefit of refining port placement and instrument use as the robotic experience grows. Diagram of port placement. All ports are aligned in a row across the abdomen except one port by the left ribcage is moved up to ensure less interference during key suturing maneuvers. 2 of 5 A Clear View of the Critical Anatomy Surgeon Megan D. Winner, MD, performed the Whipple, which she typically begins by elevating the colon and dividing the attachments of the duodenum, enabling easier handling of the anatomy when addressing bleeding. Midway through, the camera location is changed from patient left to patient right, improving visualization and minimizing organ traction as the gallbladder is excised and the small bowel is moved away from the colon. Surgeon’s view, showing the proximity of the tumor (right) to the IVC (left). 3 of 5 Separating the Tumor from the IVC Separating the tumor from the IVC at the confluence of the LRV was the most vulnerable operative step. The robotic platform enabled this to be performed with perfect visualization and in a near-bloodless manner, proving superior to an open approach, and secured the ability to proceed with the robotic system. If the vessel had been involved directly, an open operation with reconstruction of the IVC would have been required. Surgeon’s view, showing the complete dissection of the IVC (left) and the left renal vein (LRV) (right) from underneath the tumor. 4 of 5 Reconstruction and Recovery During reconstruction, a connecting limb is extended below the colon to the pancreas, with another extended above the colon to the stomach, and adipose tissue is interposed. Dr. Winner speculates this separation lessens the impact of a pancreatic anastomosis leak, reduces the occurrence of delayed gastric emptying, shortens the length of stay, and has driven a reduced need for gastronomy tubes. This patient was discharged on postoperative day 4. Surgeon’s view during reconstruction and anastomosis following the Whipple procedure. 5 of 5 Subscribe for Updates in Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Complete View of the Cornea Now in Sight NYU Langone is the first institution in North America to acquire a CellChek C, a wide-field scanning specular microscope, for research under IRB approval. Redefining the Management of Fuchs Dystrophy From success with DSO to investigating ROCK inhibitors, NYU Langone specialists pioneer new approaches. New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis Optic nerve lesions may increase the diagnostic accuracy of MS and justify initiation of disease-modifying therapy. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Ophthalmology Honor Roll USNWR Best Hospitals Research Leader $4M+ in NIH funding, including the multi-center Zoster Eye Disease Study 100K+ annual patient visits Subscribe for Updates in Ophthalmology Cochlear Implant Center Marks 40 Years of Innovation The co-directors of the highly influential center discuss its impact on multiple strategies for addressing hearing loss Dr. Umamaheswar Duvvuri on the Cutting Edge of Robotic Surgery The chair of otolaryngology tells Doctor Radio why the future lies with robots, telesurgery, and AI. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Ranked #10 in Ear, Nose, & Throat 2021 NASBS Multidisciplinary Team of Distinction Cochlear implant surgeries performed each year Building Capacity for Hearing Loss Care in Uganda Dr. Chris Ndoleriire, chair of the department at Makerere University, and Dr. Amina Seguya, attending otologist. Ugandan residents learning from NYU Langone chief resident Leena Asfour, MD. Ugandan residents learning procedures in the new cadaver temporal bone laboratory for the first time. Dr. Amina Seguya, an Ugandan attending physician, at an NYU temporal bone course. Subscribe for Updates in Otolaryngology—Head & Neck Surgery Open Surgery Resolves Large AVM Causing Intractable Headaches Teen with severe headaches due to occipital AVM cured by endovascular embolization combined with surgical resection. NYU Langone Health Presenters at the CNS 2024 Annual Meeting See the NYU Langone Health physicians who are joining colleagues in Houston, September 28 to October 2. Explore Neurology Explore Neurosurgery A Leader in Neurology & Neurosurgery Ranked #1 in Neurology & Neurosurgery $1.5M+ funding for Neurosurgery clinical trials Top 10 for NIH funding in neurology (Blue Ridge) New Push for Optic Neuritis as the Fifth Lesion Site in Multiple Sclerosis In the theoretical case of a 24-year-old woman presenting to a hospital’s emergency department with blurred vision, some of the hallmark features pointed to a diagnosis of early multiple sclerosis (MS). Suggestive clinical findings also included an age of onset between 20 and 50 years, eye pain that worsened with eye movements, and visual loss occurring over several days to two weeks. Research has established five main clinical findings that point to optic neuritis in patients. Steven Galetta, MD, and colleagues have used optic coherence tomography (OCT) to help establish a key imaging criterion for diagnosing an optic neuropathy—and in the proper clinical setting, for diagnosing optic neuritis. The potential early manifestation of MS, they found, could be reliably identified through an asymmetry of five or more microns in the thickness between right and left optic nerves, which normally measure between 90 and 100 microns apiece. Imaging by OCT from an actual case shows an asymmetry of 21 microns between a patient’s right and left optic nerves: 75 versus 96 microns, respectively—a potential early sign ofoptic nerve impairment and multiple sclerosis. Researchers who identify the signs of optic neuritis must consider five main causes for the inflammation. Beyond MS, neuromyelitis optica and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) antibody-associated disease can present similarly. Systemic infections such as syphilis or Lyme disease can likewise impact the optic nerve while the inflammation sometimes fails to associate with any established cause. Differential diagnosis of optic neuritis must distinguish among multiple potential causes. Subscribe for Updates in Neurology & Neurosurgery One Size Doesn’t Fit All in Concussion Recovery Precise assessment and individualized management help detect and treat brain disturbances early. Standardizing Care for Children with Disabilities How a rehabilitation specialist applies a WHO framework to streamline care for pediatric patients. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Rehabilitation Ranked #4 (tied) in Rehabilitation $7.1M+ research funding in 2021 250K+ annual outpatient visits The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant An Extraordinarily Complex Case In July 2018, a car accident left 22-year-old Joseph DiMeo with third-degree burns covering 89 percent of his body and post-traumatic facial deformity from composite tissue loss of the face. Additional diagnoses were severe neck contracture, bilateral partial facial paresis, respiratory failure, tracheostomy, and oral incompetence. Tissue loss had also caused vision loss and hearing impairment. In July 2018, Joseph DiMeo was in a car accident that changed the course of his life. A Pioneering Surgery Mr. DiMeo underwent approximately 20 reconstructive surgeries, yet still suffered extensive physical deficits, such as amputated fingertips, lips, and eyelids, and severe facial scarring. full face and bilateral forearm transplantation took approximately 23 hours and involved a team of more than 140 healthcare professionals, led by The combined full face and double hand transplant procedure was performed by Eduardo D. Rodriguez, MD, DDS, chair of the Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, and the Helen L. Kimmel Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery, in August 2020. Extensive Hospital Stays Post-surgery, Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his face for the first time. Dr. Rodriguez continued to monitor his progress and the many nerve and tissue grafts. Mr. DiMeo then remained inpatient at under the direction of Jeffrey M. Cohen, MD Mr. DiMeo spent five weeks in intensive care before being able to see his reconstructed face for the first time. Intensive Rehabilitation Program Rehabilitation demands extended far beyond face transplant to include new hand-based orthoses and exercises to improve hand and grip strength. The nursing team educated Mr. DiMeo on the importance of daily standing and walking, plus passive stretching to prevent contractures. Therapists also performed tissue massage to help remodel scar tissue on his forearms, hands, shoulders, and neck. Joe DiMeo’s rehabilitation protocols were created by physical and occupational therapists at NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation. Hand Therapy and Fine Motor Dexterity Prior to rehabilitation, Mr. DiMeo’s serial opposition, or his ability to touch digits 2 through 5 to the tip of his thumb, was significantly impaired. After extensive work on his fine motor dexterity, his grip strength markedly improved, allowing him to complete fine motor tasks independently, such as the ability to pick up a utensil. April D. O’Connell, OT/L, clinical specialist for hand and upper extremity rehabilitation, designed a unique hand therapy protocol with the goal of getting Mr. DiMeo back to the activities of everyday life. Podcast: Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine Hear experts from NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation and other leaders from across the rehabilitation field discuss the latest in research, treatment options, and other timely topics on the Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast. Search “Rusk” on the Podcast app (Apple devices) or Stitcher (Android devices) to find the podcast and subscribe. Subscribe for Updates in Rehabilitation Robotic Tracheal Resection Treats an 11-Year-Old’s Rare Tumor For a salivary gland tumor uncommon in children, close pediatric and adult collaboration enables “a very elegant procedure.” Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Management of life-threatening clots combines pediatric ECMO and a novel mechanical thrombectomy approach. NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Ranked #1 (tied) in Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Global Destination for robotic thoracic surgery training Top Rated in COPD, Lung Cancer Surgery, and Pneumonia* *High performing in USNWR procedures and conditions Aligning Critical Care Expertise to Treat an Adolescent’s Rare Pulmonary Embolism Emergent Imaging Identifies Source of Cardiopulmonary Symptoms Imaging pinpoints