rate for Red Hook overall is , the rate is three times higher in the census tract containing Red Hook Houses compared with the surrounding census tracts ( vs ). Poverty, high unemployment, and low educational attainment are challenges in the community. Forty three percent of children under the age of 18 Red Hook live in poverty. Prior to the Covid 19 pandemic, of residents 16 and older were unemployed, compared with of residents citywide. About of workers were employed in educational, health care or social assistance industry and about of workers were employed in retail trade. Thirty one percent of adults have not completed high school. Red Hook is geographically isolated. Many residents live far from the subway system and the neighborhood is cut off from the rest of Brooklyn by the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, causing difficulty in accessing resources not available in the community. Community concerns about access to healthcare and affordable food have increased with the closures of Long Island College Hospital in 2013 and Pathmark in 2015. This isolation, however, also fosters social cohesion, neighborhood pride, and resiliency. Red Hook is home to a dedicated network of non profits, arts and cultural organizations, religious institutions, and resident led community building activities. In our survey of community residents, of community members rated community based organizations as a top strength in Red Hook. Housing in Red Hook § Close to 2,900 housing units in Red Hook are in public housing, accounting for more than half of Red Hook housing units and offering some protection against rising housing costs. § In a community health needs and assets assessment supported by the CSP, Red Hook residents noted that despite poor housing conditions, affordable housing is a key community asset. § Red Hook community members identified “home repairs” as the most essential service needed to improve health and wellbeing in Red Hook. Focus group participants cited needed home repairs, rent increases, and housing insecurity as key causes of stress, anxiety and depression. § Due to the availability of subsidized and public housing, the share of renters who experience any rent burden () is less than the citywide share (). 14 Red Hook was greatly affected by Superstorm Sandy and recovery efforts continue. Most of the Red Hook Ballfields were closed in 2012 and again in 2015 because of lead soil contamination. Two are now open and efforts are underway to fix the third. Many Red Hook residents are also impacted by poor housing conditions that affect the entire NYCHA system, such as heat and hot water outages, mold, and risk for lead exposure. Red Hook is also experiencing a period of rapid development and major reconstruction, which has had a substantial effect on the health and well being of residents. Stressors include: loss of green space, air and noise pollution, and potential exposure to mold and lead due to the ongoing construction within and around the NYCHA Red Hook Houses. Additionally, the construction of trucking delivery facilities in Red Hook has introduced an influx of commercial trucks driving and idling on the streets of Red Hook, causing concern for those with respiratory issues. 4. The Lower East Side and Chinatown Needs and Assets To increase our impact and create opportunities for synergy across programs, starting with the 2013 2016 CHNAA, NYULH focused on the area closest to the Manhattan campus with the greatest need: the Lower East Side and Chinatown. The Lower East Side/Chinatown Community District (Manhattan Community District 3), which includes neighboring East Village, is a community with concentrated pockets of poverty and a high percentage of Latinx and Asians groups that experience disparities in many health outcomes. Red Hook Community Health Network partners: The Alex House Project supports low income families and young mothers to ensure they successfully transition into parenthood by providing access to parenting training, higher education, and employment opportunities. Good Shepherd Services partners with children, families, and youth to address basic needs, build on family strengths, promote belonging, expand developmental opportunities, and strengthen job readiness. Red Hook Community Justice Center provides the Red Hook community with peacemaking, community service, youth court learning opportunities. They also operate a housing resource center that provides support and information to residents with cases in housing court. Red Hook Initiative (RHI) supports youth and adult residents of the Red Hook Houses by providing youth development, career readiness, and community organizing opportunities. RHI also operates Red Hook Farms, a 4+ acre youth centered urban farm and food justice program. https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Chinatown_NYC_June_2019.jpg by Wil540 art is licensed under CC BY SA 4.0, original image cropped 15 Located along the eastern shore of lower Manhattan, this neighborhood is one of the earliest areas settled in New York City and was a historic stop for immigrants in the 19th and early 20th century. Today, the Community District is home to about 163,000 residents, including born outside the United States. Immigrant populations comprise a large percentage () of residents in the Chinatown neighborhood. Today, the District’s population is about White, Asian, and Latinx. The Latinx population is largely Puerto Rican () and Dominican () while the Asian population is primarily Chinese (). Overall, of the population in Manhattan Community District 3 have limited English proficiency. Among the Chinese language speakers, speak English “less than very well” compared with for Chinese language speakers in Manhattan as a whole. Compared with NYC (), Manhattan CD 3 has a higher percent of adults ages 65 years and older— of the population overall, with higher percents the Chinatown neighborhood area (). In its most recent Needs Statement, the Community Board highlighted the need for maintaining and expanding senior services, noting concerns about social isolation, depression, food access and the need for culturally and linguistically appropriate informaton and access health and social services. With of individuals living below poverty, the Lower East Side/Chinatown stands in stark contrast to the surrounding neighborhoods in Lower Manhattan the Financial District and Greenwich Village/SoHo which rank among the neighborhoods with the lowest poverty rates in all of New York City ( and respectively). Yet even within the Community District, there are areas of wealth, with of residents having incomes five times higher than poverty level. Newer wealthier developments are arising alongside older housing stock home to residents with lower incomes. About of all public housing units in Manhattan are located in Community District 3 (about of the total for NYC); yet as the neighborhood continues to gentrify, there is growing community concern about access to affordable housing. Nearly of housing units are renter occupied and of renter households are severely rent burdened (spend more than of income on rent). 16 5. Hempstead Needs and Assets Following the merger of NYU Langone Health and Winthrop Hospital (now NYU Langone Hospital Long Island) in the summer of 2019, we launched an in depth, community engaged needs and assets assessment, focusing initially on the Village of Hempstead, which is responsible for the greatest number of hospital discharges and emergency department visits and which, as described below, is an area of high need. Beginning in July 2021, ten local CBOs, together with relevant staff, have been meeting monthly to identify what is known and what information is missing about community health needs, assets, and priorities. The group reviewed analyses from secondary data sources and then developed data collection and engagement strategies, including coordination with a survey being conducted by the Long Island Health Collaborative. The group also helped to host six group discussions with 37 participants, Key Community Partners: Since its founding in 1974, Asian Americans for Equality (AAFE) has evolved into a nationally recognized affordable housing developer and social service provider, serving New York City's one million Asian American residents. Services include community development and housing preservation, housing legal services, community education, citizenship preparation, and social services. AAFE has led campaigns to promote equal employment, affordable housing, fair housing, transportation equity, local economic development, community lending, civic participation, healthcare access, immigrant rights, and educational access. For more than 50 years, the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC) has been a leader in providing high quality, affordable, and culturally competent primary care and support services to medically underserved Asian Americans and other disadvantaged populations in the New York metropolitan area. In addition to providing comprehensive primary care, CBWCHC promotes the overall health of the community through innovative health education and disease prevention programs. The Chinese American Planning Council’s mission is to promote the social and economic empowerment of Chinese American, immigrant, and low income communities. Founded in 1965, CPC is a social services organization that creates positive social change, empowering Asian American, immigrant, and low income communities in New York City by ensuring equitable access to the resources and opportunities needed to thrive. CPC is the nation's largest Asian American social services organization and a vital resource to more than 60,000 individuals and families striving to achieve their education, family, community, and career goals. CPC welcomes community members at every stage of life to over 50 high quality programs at 35 sites in Manhattan, Brooklyn (where we partner in our work in Sunset Park), and Queens. Participating Community Based Organizations: § EOC of Nassau County Head Start § Family & Children’s Association Hempstead Prevention Coalition § Hempstead Community Land Trust § Hispanic Counseling Center § Long Island FQHC, Inc. § Mental Health Association of Nassau County § NYU Langone Long Island Pediatric Center § RotaCare § St. George’s Episcopal Church § The Salvation Army 17 including staff members from the Pediatric Center and the Mental Health Association of Nassau County, and conducted several one on one interviews with staff who live in the community. This process will continue as part of our on going commitment to community engagement and to community participation in program development, implementation and assessment. We report here on our findings to date and expect to learn more over the coming months and years. About Hempstead: Brief History Like many communities across Long Island, Hempstead was settled in the mid 1600’s by English immigrants on land purchased from Native Americans. By the mid 1800’s Hempstead was a thriving settlement and important center of trade for communities on Long Island. In 1853, the Incorporated Village of Hempstead became the first self governing community in what was then Queens County. In the early 1900’s, the Town of Hempstead built a Town Hall in the Village and today the Village remains home to Town government offices. Hempstead was a commercial, civic, and transportation center long before the post War housing and population boom that transformed the surrounding areas in Nassau County. Yet, what may be viewed as a boom for other communities also contributed to dis investment and loss of businesses within the Village of Hempstead during the 1970’s 1980’s. In the 1990’s there was a concerted effort to redevelop and re invest in the Village to strengthen its position as a Town government center and re establish its commercial retail presence. Recent Population Growth The population of Hempstead has grown in the past two decades and today is the most populous village in Nassau County with 59,000 residents according to the 2020 Census. This overall population increase is driven by an increase in the Latinx population which today numbers nearly 30,000 accounting for of the population. Between 2000 and 2020, there has been a decrease in the number of Black residents; in 2020, of the population was Black, down from in 2000. In Nassau County overall in 2020, of the population was White, Latinx, Asian, and Black. Hempstead Today Community Perspectives 18 In talking with people who live and/or work in Hempstead some common themes emerge. People speak about Hempstead with pride. The diversity of the community is valued. Neighbors are described as nice people, friendly, willing to help, and the community looks out for one another. There is a strong focus on the importance of family. Community members described numerous assets available in Hempstead, including the African American Museum of Nassau County, retail options, churches, convenient location, walkability, transportation options, a public library, and parks. Many mentioned resources available through the many community based organizations. Community members also described some areas of need to make Hempstead an even better place to live and be healthy. Secondary Data Sources: While secondary data sources are useful in describing community level indictors and making comparisons with other areas, we recognize that secondary sources of data cannot tell a complete story of a community. In this section, we used information gathered from multiple community conversations to contextualize some core indicators. Nativity and Language About of Hempstead residents are immigrants. Top birth countries for the immigrant population are: El Salvador (), Jamaica (), Honduras (), and Haiti (). About of Hempstead residents ages five years or older speak only English and speak Spanish. Among Spanish speakers, nearly two out three speak English less than "very well". As one community member highlighted, many immigrants leave their lives behind and must start over when they arrive in Hempstead. Some have fled violence and poverty in their home countries. Others followed family members who settled in Hempstead, further strengthening the strong family ties within the community. Many come to Hempstead speaking only Spanish and the lack of bi lingual services and information can be a barrier to accessing care and other needs. In addition, anti immigrant rhetoric and fear of 19 deportation for themselves or family members can impact access to needed services. Yet, this shared sense of experience also contributes to the sense of belonging. \Educational Attainment About of Hempstead residents ages 25 years or older have at least a high school degree and have a bachelor's degree or higher. In Nassau County overall, have at least a high school degree and have a bachelor's degree or higher. While educational attainment in part reflects limited educational opportunities available in countries outside the US, for many years high school graduation rates for Hempstead were much lower than other communities although gains have been made more recently. Parents in the community spoke about the importance of education for their children and expressed concern about the quality of the local public schools. In February 2020, New York State assigned a monitor to oversee operations of the Hempstead School District. Private and charter schools in the area are expensive or based on a lottery admission process, further adding stress to parents concerned about how to provide their children with better educational opportunities. Income and Poverty The median household income in Nassau County is $118,453, making it one of the wealthiest counties in America. But not every community in the county experiences this level of prosperity. In Hempstead, median household income is $62,569, and of household earn less than $50,000 per year. Poverty is three times higher in Hempstead than in Nassau County ( vs ). Many of the focus group participants and community partners mentioned financial insecurity as a struggle in the community. In part, limited employment opportunities mean that residents can only find work in low wage occupations and often have to work multiple jobs to support themselves and their families. Limited income was also noted as a barrier to accessing healthcare, particularly preventive services. Housing The housing landscape in Hempstead is comprised mostly of multi unit housing (), including of housing units in structures containing twenty or more units. About of housing units in Hempstead are single unit, compared with in Nassau County. There are four public housing developments in Hempstead, including two developments dedicated to housing seniors. About of housing units in Hempstead are crowded (1.01 to 1.50 people per room), with an additional considered severely crowded (1.51 or more people per room). In Nassau County, of housing units are 20 crowded and are severely crowded. Most housing in Hempstead is renter occupied (); compared to of housing units in Nassau County. About of renter occupied housing units in Hempstead are severely rent burdened (rent is or more of income), compared with in Nassau County. Focus group participants noted the need for affordable housing, as well as services and housing for people experiencing homelessness. Some noted that multiple generations of a family live together, providing valued family support but also resulting in crowding. Transportation Hempstead is a major transit hub, with a Long Island Railroad (LIRR) station terminus and Nassau Inter County Express (NICE) Bus terminal located at the Rosa Parks Hempstead Transit Center. Hempstead households are less likely to have a vehicle available; of households have no vehicle available, compared with in Nassau County. While public transportation options are more plentiful in Hempstead relative to other parts of Nassau County, transportation options within Hempstead are limited and some cited this as a barrier to accessing medical care and other services. Food security A report from the Nassau County Comptroller’s Office highlighted five census tracts in Hempstead considered to have limited access to food—areas where or more of the population lived more than ½ mile from the nearest supermarket or large grocery store—including two census tracts considered food deserts due to limited vehicle availability. A lack of healthy food choices at the supermarket was noted as a factor that makes it hard to stay healthy. Access to food was noted as a need; which some community partners are already helping to fill. For example, St. George's Episcopal Church and the Salvation Army have food pantries. Health Care Access, Outcomes and Behaviors Ø Health insurance Overall, of Hempstead residents do not have health insurance more than three times the rate for Nassau County overall (). This is driven by the percent of residents ages 19 64 years who do not have coverage ( in Hempstead, compared to in Nassau County). Nearly all children and older adults in Hempstead have health insurance, similar to Nassau County. 21 Ø Cancer Screening Timely breast cancer screening () and cervical cancer screening () rates are similar for women in Hempstead and Nassau County. Timely screening for colon cancer is lower in Hempstead than Nassau County ( vs ). Ø Hospital Visits Potentially avoidable hospitalizations are defined as those that may be prevented with better access to primary care. Hempstead (zip code 11550) had the second highest rate of potentially avoidable hospitalizations (251 per 10,000 adults) of all zip codes in Nassau County. Falls are the leading cause of injury related deaths and hospital visits among adults ages 65 years and older in New York State. The falls related hospitalization rate is higher among older adults in Nassau County (237 per 10,000) compared with older adults statewide (194 per 10,000). Ø Children’s Health In addition to describing the burden of deaths before age one year, the infant mortality rate is often used as a marker of community health status given its relation to structural factors that impact health. The infant mortality rate in Hempstead was 4 per 1,000 live births, slightly higher than Nassau County overall (3 per 1,000). Hempstead (zip code 11550) had the highest rate of asthma related emergency department visits among children of all zip codes in Nassau County. Hempstead (zip code 11550) had the second highest teen pregnancy rate of all zip codes in Nassau County (69 per 1,000 females ages 15 19). Ø Chronic Disease and Mental Health Overall, Hempstead residents suffer disproportionately from chronic disease and mental distress as compared with the rest of Nassau County. About of Hempstead adults are obese, compared with in Nassau County. Among students attending school in the Hempstead School District, of elementary students are obese and of middle/high school students are obese. (By contrast, In Nassau County, of elementary school students and of middle/high school students are obese.) About of Hempstead adults have high blood pressure, compared with in Nassau County. About of Hempstead adults have diabetes, compared with in Nassau County. About of Hempstead adults experienced frequent mental distress (feeling like mental health was not good for 14 or more days in past month), compared with in Nassau County. Ø Health Behaviors About of Hempstead adults were not physically active compared with in Nassau County. About of Hempstead adults smoke, compared with in Nassau County. Community Perspectives on Health and Needs for Improved Health: Community members described health in very holistic terms, including physical, emotional, and mental health. While many reflected on health as being more than healthcare, some also noted lack of access to healthcare as a top need. Many cited the need to address language and transportation barriers related to healthcare access. Many also noted a need for more healthcare facilities, especially sites offering low cost or sliding scale options and a 24 hour pharmacy. 22 Many interviewees noted the importance of getting exercise as a key element to staying healthy. As described above, parks were cited as a community asset; some suggested that it would be beneficial if there were more structured activities available at parks to promote physical activity and community building. Concern was expressed about the limited hours that parks are open and several people noted safety concerns, in terms of physical infrastructure (i.e., lack of fences around playgrounds to prevent young children from running out of the area) and crime. Concerns about crime and safety were also noted as barriers to walking alone. In one group, it was suggested that a recreation center for teens would help promote physical activity and potentially help reduce crime. Good nutrition and healthy eating were also mentioned as key to good health. Some interviewees noted that food prices and lack of access to nutritious foods made it hard to stay healthy, particularly for residents with chronic conditions like diabetes. Some suggested supplementing increased access to healthy food options with nutrition programs aimed at developing skills needed to cook healthier meals. Community members also noted a number of resources and services that were available through local community based organizations as an asset to support health and well being. Both residents and CBOs cited a need for increased awareness of available services, and noted the need for organizations to build trust and actively engage in outreach. Suggestions included creating a repository or guide, as well as advertising in community spaces like laundromats and through social media. D. Assessment and Selection of Public Health Priorities At the January 10, 2022 meeting of the Coordinating Council, we asked participants to use a Google Jamboard to share the two or three greatest strengths and the two to three greatest needs they see in the communities they serve. Key themes are presented below: 23 Below, we discuss key priorities and concerns that have emerged in our communities: the impact of COVID, the intersection of health and housing, healthy eating and food security, tobacco prevention and cessation, and maternal and child health outcomes and children’s social emotional development. 1. Impact of COVID Since the first case of COVID was identified in NYC on February 29, 2020, nearly two million cases have been confirmed through February 1, 2022. As of that date, more than 38,000 NYC deaths have been attributed to COVID, with death rates higher among Latinx and Black New Yorkers. While these numbers are staggering, they do not account for the economic and emotional impacts brought on by this pandemic. Across our Community Service Plan, programs and partners mobilized swiftly to respond to the devastating impact of the COVID 19 pandemic on the health and well being of our communities. As we have pivoted to collect information and respond to urgent needs, we have developed a deeper understanding of community resilience, inequities, and system failures. A summary of the demographics, needs and assets of each community is provided in Section I.C. Impact on residents of public housing: According to data from the NYC DOHMH, NYCHA residents constitute about of the City’s population but made up roughly of the City’s total deaths from COVID between March 2020 and June 2021. The impact of this has been felt in the vast swath of public housing on the Lower East Side and in Red Hook Houses, the second largest public housing complex in New York City. Red Hook’s COVID risk highlights these disparities. Census tract 85 (dominantly residents living in public housing) is at the highest risk for COVID infection and more severe COVID outcomes (10 out of 10), yet the two surrounding census tracts are at the lower end of the spectrum (2 and 3 out of 10). Community partners in Red Hook note that the pandemic has exposed and deepened inequities in health, housing, education, the built environment, economic mobility and community safety in Red Hook. As we look towards recovery from COVID 19, vaccine distribution and access become critical components to ensuring the resiliency of Red Hook. In February 2022, nearly of residents in the wealthier part of Red Hook had received one or more doses of the COVID 19 vaccine, while only of residents in the Red Hook Houses had received one or more doses. 24 Here, we briefly describe the many challenges arising from the pandemic that are shared across all of the CSP communities. Economic Burden: The CDC Social Vulnerability Index and NYULH City Health Dashboard COVID Local Risk indices highlight widespread vulnerability in some of our communities and pockets of need and disparities in others. These neighborhoods are at greatest risk of human suffering and financial loss compared with other New York State and US communities, and are most likely to need sustained support before, during, and after public health emergencies. All of our communities have been hit hard by the economic fallout of the pandemic. For example, prior to the pandemic, about one third () of employed adults in Sunset Park worked in service occupations, which were largely shut down due to the pandemic, compared to of workers in NYC. The small businesses that line the vibrant streets of Sunset Park and Chinatown have been hit particularly hard. A recent study by the NYULH Center for the Study of Asian American Health documented the severe impact of COVID 19 on businesses in the Chinese ethnic neighborhoods of these communities. Many businesses are now beginning to return, but Asian American and immigrant owned small businesses face obstacles to recovery. Access to financial relief is often inaccessible in other languages, and a lack formal payment systems in some family owned enterprises makes it difficult for them to provide necessary documentation to qualify for help. In addition, the surge of anti Asian crimes, and misplaced fear of higher contagion in Asian populations, have hampered the revitalization of many Asian owned businesses. Black, Latinx and Asian populations groups that largely comprise our CSP communities have experienced greater financial stress resulting from the COVID 19 pandemic than White New Yorkers. In April 2020, nearly half () of adults reported that they or someone in their household had been laid off or had to work reduced hours because of the COVID 19 pandemic. This was more commonly reported by Black adults () compared with White adults (). Discrimination: Violence against Asian Americans has increased 7 fold according to the NYC Commission on Human Rights due to hostility fueled by the political rhetoric about the virus’s origins. As a result, members of the Chinese communities in Sunset Park and Chinatown have reported increased stress, anxiety and isolation. At the same time, anti immigrant sentiment and the continuing violence against Black Americans have deepened the stress and fear already felt by many residents in our diverse communities. Fear of discrimination has not only affected individual mental health but also fueled vaccine hesitancy and unwillingness to seek COVID 19 testing. In Hempstead, where the population is largely Black and Latinx, community partners have reported that the lack of trust arising from the legacy of discrimination and structural racism, and fear of reprisal for undocumented status, have kept many members of the community from accessing needed services, even when they are available. Stress for Frontline Staff: In all of our communities, community organizations and residents have rallied to support their neighbors, reaching out to those who are vulnerable through tenant organizations, community health worker programs, and support groups. Community Health Workers and other frontline staff at local 25 CBOs, many of whom themselves are community residents and many of whom have feared violence and discrimination have provided a vital link to trusted and needed services particularly at the height of the pandemic. In all of our communities, community based organizations have stepped in to provide essential services, connecting people to health care and social service resources; providing outreach and education about COVID prevention, vaccination, testing, and treatment; and offering emotional support for those experiencing stress and isolation. At a meeting of the Community Service Plan Coordinating Council in October 2021, CBO leaders and staff described some of the acute challenges experienced by people working on the frontline. Although the number of people in need has increased and thankfully supplemental resources and benefits have been made available the funding and number of employees at most CBOs have not grown. Indeed, for many CBOs it has been difficult to fill positions, especially those that require specific language and cultural competencies. Similarly, at meetings of the Health & Housing Consortium Steering Committee and at the Annual Convening of our Health & Housing Consortium (December 7 8, 2021), participants described how the COVID 19 pandemic has exacerbated pre existing staffing shortages across all human services sectors. Low salaries and wage stagnation, fear of contagion, and stressful work have made it difficult to recruit and retain staff, even as the need for the services they provide has grown. As a result, workload of existing staff has increased. Staff are serving more clients with greater needs, adapting program models to address the constraints imposed by the pandemic, struggling to overcome technological barriers to care, and complying with new reporting requirements, all without an increase in funding or staffing. Many reported that they and their colleagues are “burned out.” Several frontline staff described a disheartening feeling of powerlessness as they encounter the same problems over and over: “The lack of systematic change is frustrating and tiring…We are doing so much work and see so little changes or improvement; it feels like we’re just putting out fires.” The deep commitment that many feel towards their clients adds to the emotional toll of the work. As one person noted, “the mental health and social issues experienced by clients become something the staff feel too.” Many of the staff at local CBOs are themselves community residents and so may be subject to the same stressors, fears, and concerns about economic instability and health as the clients they serve. One partner noted: “our staff are in need of the same services they help their clients with.” Often, staff are supporting and caring for family members and friends who themselves may be newly unemployed, ill, or otherwise vulnerable. The CSP Community Health Worker Research and Resource Center (described in Section II.C.7. below), has worked to support CHWs and other frontline workers, offering educational programs and support to staff within NYULH and at our partner organizations. Over the course of the pandemic, these programs have expanded to reach frontline staff across the City and nationally. To understand and respond to the needs of this workforce at NYULH, the CHW RRC has fielded quarterly wellness surveys of CHWs beginning in March 2020. The survey results echo the concerns and issues raised at the Coordinating In interviews with teachers and social workers, we learned about the stress experience by members of the school community and strategies that they used to support each other emotionally and professionally, including shared lesson planning, support with information technology, and check in meetings. Rather than focusing on their own needs, many teachers and social workers expressed concern about their students and families, calling caregivers the real “heroes” of the pandemic. 26 Council meeting and the Health & Housing Consortium meetings. Many respondents reported having caregiving responsibilities for family members and elderly or sick adults. And their concerns about financial security and the mental and physical health for themselves and their families mirror the stresses they see in the communities they serve. As one person wrote: “It has been very challenging. I lost my family members and listened to my participants, who sometimes lost family members and lost jobs.” Some described a sense of isolation, which is particularly challenging when dealing with complex and urgent client needs and addressing the challenge of “civil tensions and how to talk to community members who may hold different opinions on what’s happening in the country right now.” Many became CHWs because they value the relationships with clients and they miss those in person interactions: the “personal contact with folks is vital to my work: patients, colleagues, staff and faculty.” Responding to these challenges, the CHWs have become adept at using technology and in implementing new strategies for connecting with each other and with clients remotely. As described in Section I.D.1., the CHW workforce has played a vital role in reaching out to the most vulnerable residents in all of our communities. Alongside the work of the CHW RRC, partner CBOs have also been working hard to support staff, implementing mental health programs, promoting self care, and creating social networks and support groups, all strategies that have been found to promote the resilience and reduce the risk of adverse physical and psychological outcomes. Increased Need for Digital Access: Technology is now an essential tool for accessing health care, education, and social services. Through our CHNAA, we have seen how the COVID 19 pandemic has increased the need for digital access, with the growth of telehealth, remote learning in school, virtual communication of important information, and virtual applications for many benefits. Yet disparities in digital literacy and broadband access persist for many living in high poverty neighborhoods. For example, in Sunset Park, about of households report no access to the internet, compared to citywide and in a more affluent neighboring community. This pattern is also seen citywide, where households in very high poverty neighborhoods are three times more likely to have no internet access than households in low poverty neighborhoods ( vs. ). Even when members of low income communities do have access to the internet, residents report that the connection speed too slow to support meaningful access to many services. Many lack the language and literacy skills to take advantage of programs that are available, such as the Emergency Broadband Benefit program. As a result, many residents of the CSP communities, especially immigrants, the elderly, and those without a high school diploma struggle with scheduling appointments, accessing healthcare appointments and records, and applying for the numerous public benefits to which they are entitled. For example, behavioral healthcare quickly pivoted to virtual platforms; given the rise in stress and anxiety during the pandemic, ensuring access to these virtual services is vitally important. “So many of our students lack access to Wi Fi, as well as adults who can help them, which impedes their learning. If one student cannot connect to remote learning, that is one student too many.” Sunset Park Elementary School Principal 27 Once again, community based organizations and frontline staff have filled in these gaps. Many CSP partner organizations stayed open throughout the COVID pandemic, including during the surge in 2020, in order to provide in person contact with vulnerable residents. At the same time, many groups are working at the community level through advocacy and outreach to improve digital access. In Sunset Park, the Digital Inclusion Group (DIG), composed of educators, community leaders, public health experts, a tech focused nonprofit, social service providers, and healthcare providers, is working to increase equitable access to Wi Fi, technological devices, and digital literacy in the Sunset Park community. 2. Needs and Assets: Addressing the Intersection of Health and Housing As highlighted in the NYS Prevention Agenda 2019 2024, access to safe housing is a key determinant of health. Tackling issues at the intersection of health and housing has been a long standing priority in our CSP communities and emerged with even greater urgency during the 2019 2021 CHNAA/CSP cycle, resulting from New York City’s decades long housing crisis and exacerbated by the COVID 19 pandemic. For this reason, we have done an in depth needs assessment on this topic and, as described in Sections II.C. 8 and 9, have strengthened and grown our CSP projects that address the intersection of health and housing. The American Hospital Association’s Housing and the Role of Hospitals report outlines three dimensions of housing instability—homelessness, lack of affordable housing, and poor housing conditions—and their associated health conditions. The following sections describe how housing issues affect the health and wellbeing of our communities in New York City, and in the neighborhoods where our CSP projects are focused in particular. Types of Housing Instability and Related Health Conditions Housing Issue Examples Related Health Conditions Homelessness • Total lack of shelter • Residence in transitional or emergency shelters • Increased rates of chronic and infectious conditions (e.g., diabetes, asthma, COPD and tuberculosis) • Mental health issues, including depression and elevated stress • Developmental delays in children Lack of affordable housing • Severe rent burden • Overcrowding • Eviction or foreclosure • Frequent moves • Stress, depression and anxiety disorders • Poor self reported health Sunset Spark Sunset Spark is a local non profit technology organization with a focus on equitable access to modern technology education for immigrant families. They partner with several local schools to provide computer science (CS) instruction in the classroom and in out of school time. During the pandemic, Sunset Spark provided weekly tech support to schools and families and guidance to teachers on how to structure communication and online classes to better support the technology