Spanish - Brooklyn Medical Assistant - (FGP) *on site - West Palm Beach* West Palm Beach, FL 99837-370 Virtual Interview Day – Psychotherapist (LCSW) – Remote Opportunities Available Job ID: 99837-370 Facility:() Department: Social Work, Psychiatry-Clinical Svc (S826) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Licensed Clinical Social Worker (LCSW). In this role, the successful candidate responsible for the clinical duties of a Clinical Social Worker, which are to evaluate and treat patients with psychiatric disorders.  This role can be performed in a hybrid or remote capacity. Provides psychological care to all assigned patients, including evaluation, determination of psychiatric disorder, formulation of treatment plan and all necessary documentation. Adheres to appropriate clinical documentation to ensure compliance with current standards of clinical practice, and adherence to all regulatory-accreditation standards. Responsible for liaison with other disciplines, patient families and institutions, as it pertains to assigned patients. Provides individual and group treatment either in person or via telehealth visits. Must be comfortable delivering care via telehealth. To qualify you must have a Licensed Clinical Social Workers (LCSWs) licensed in New York State. Five years of experience in psychotherapy. Licensed Social Worker – NYS NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $80,000.00 – $90,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Supervisor-School Behavioral Social Worker - Per Diem - Outpatient & Acute Dialysis - Mineola Social Worker - Medicine 1138165_RR00100673 Job ID: 1138165_RR00100673 Position Type: Temporary Shift: Per Diem Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Outpatient Lab (H188) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Per Diem Phlebotomist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing routine technical duties in a laboratory or patient area. Performs routine Phlebotomy in a laboratory or patient area Aware of patients frame of mind and general appearance before proceeding with venipuncture Cleans the area and secures the tourniquet Inserts the needle accurately into the vein and draws the blood properly Draws the number and types of tubes in accordance with the requisition Strictly follows departmental and standard operating procedures Completes all procedures during assigned shift Performs Quality Control Phlebotomy Procedures in the laboratory Disposes of used needles immediately after use in the appropriate containers Carries out safety and quality control procedures on a daily basis Strictly complies with isolation and sterile procedures Labels the specimens and brings them into the main processing area in a timely manner Labels all specimens accurately by affixing the computer processing label Brings STATS to appropriate departments immediately Returns specimens to verifying area when rack is filled and before breaks lunchtime and end of shift Labels Blood bank specimens properly as set by laboratory protocol High school diploma or the equivalent required One year of Phlebotomy experience performing venipunctures and finger sticks Practical knowledge of information system operations Phlebotomy Certificate and/or Certification in Medical Assisting required Appropriate interpersonal skills for interacting with patients, physicians, and other customers of the Outpatient Lab Strong verbal communication skills in English language Strong writing skills in the English language to include but not limited to legibility neatness and completeness of thought Detail oriented capable of handling stress from irregular workload and demonstrate businesslike and professional attitude at all times The phlebotomist must demonstrate expertise with the performance of the wide range of phlebotomy duties per laboratory procedure to include procedures on patients ranging from pediatric adolescent adult and geriatric. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $33.92  Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138275_RR00100451 Clinical Laboratory Technologist – Microbiology Job ID: 1138275_RR00100451 Shift: Monday – Friday 4pm to 12am, Alternating Weekends Department: Clinical Labs, Clin Labs-Microbiology (H195) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Clinical Laboratory Technologist. In this role, the successful candidate will be responsible for performing complex clinical laboratory tests on specimens for diagnostic purposes under minimal supervision. Performs routine microbiological/immunological testing of specimens on technologist level Checks specimens for accuracy and appropriate containers Correctly subcultures to specific media for optimal recovery of microbes Possesses ability to identify presence of microbes by culture antibody or other means Possesses ability to perform antibiotic susceptibilities if applicable Able to accurately interpret & record results of testing Can differentiate normal & abnormal results Reports promptly via computer or telephone Reviews results & consults appropriate reference sources when needed Consults with superiors to assist interpretation when necessary Performs Quality Control measures to ensure accuracy of results Performs laboratory tests and procedures which require technical skill and an exercise of independent judgment with minimal supervision and documents results to ensure compliance with Medical Center and regulatory requirements Applies sound technical judgment in evaluating problems and developing prompt reasonable workable alternatives which benefit the patient within established guidelines of the department Handles varying workloads while maintaining accuracy Follows approved policies and procedures in performing specific methodologies and instrument operations and follows approved policies for proper recording accuracy and legibility and reporting of all results Calls Critical Values to nursing unit immediately upon their completion and records the name of person to whom the results were given as well as the time of the call Demonstrates sufficient knowledge or expertise in dealing with scientific principles involved in the methodology performed; as well as alternative methodologies and their application to a given situation Brings unresolved problems to the attention of a supervisor/assistant supervisor s and is prepared to report on the results of initial problem investigation and discuss possible causes and solutions by presenting factual and objective data Performs additional procedures as required to ensure the quality of the laboratory testing performed; and documents this activity Performs and records periodic quality control analysis instrument function checks and preventive maintenance procedures following approved policy Correlates final patient result with known facts concerning the patients history previous results to determine goodness of fit and recognized illogical results Follows approved guidelines in approaches to problem solving and devises appropriate courses of action when patient results control values and instrument function parameters are inconsistent or invalid: including investigation of possible sources of variance/interference by taking appropriate action and/or performing additional testing as necessary to assure the accuracy of the reported patient value Maintains sufficient working supplies in order to assure the continued integrity of workstation operations Maintains up to date pending logs to ensure that all specimens have been processed accordingly Performs and documents preventive maintenance procedures and instrument function checks Performs preventive maintenance procedures at each workstation as required Documents all maintenance performed both scheduled and unscheduled Documents all required information in the appropriate section of the instrument problem log NYSDOH Licensed as a Certified Clinical Laboratory Technologist Bachelor’s Degree in Clinical Laboratory Technology from a program registered by the NYS Department of Education or Bachelor’s Degree in the major of biology chemistry or physical sciences from an accredited college or university or education requirement grandfathered by the NYSOP One year experience in a clinical laboratory completion of an internship at a qualified institution is acceptable Effective Interpersonal Communication skills required. Proficient computer skills ASCP registry preferred Multitasking abilities and flexibility are a plus NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $96,670.42 – $121,542.23 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138600_RR00100957 Job ID: 1138600_RR00100957 Shift: 9:30AM – 5:30PM Monday – Friday Department: Clinical Labs, NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island (WUH) Surgical Pathology (W6159) NYU Langone Hospital-Long Island is a 591-bed university-affiliated medical center, which offers sophisticated diagnostic and therapeutic care in virtually every specialty and subspecialty of medicine and surgery. We are a major regional healthcare resource with a deep commitment to medical education and research, offering a full complement of inpatient and outpatient services. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Pathology Data Associate. In this role, the successful candidate Performs clerical and support activities necessary to assist in laboratory operations Serves as a communications resource and facilitates the collection and transfer of information both internally and externally Assists medical nursing and administrative staff to meet unit department and institutional goals Adheres to the department’s Standard Operating policies and procedures, Recognizes process failures and takes effective corrective action. Determines acceptable quality of requisitions and reports and logs and faxes. Notifies manger in the case of any problematic processes and audits and records in departmental computer system all specific information. Assists in the coaching, mentoring and training of new clerical accessioning staff. Maintains legal retrievals and filing and documentation for Risk Management issues with tracking of any specimensslidesblocks through computer system. Prioritizes work in an efficient manner. Appropriately accessions and organizes 2nd patient requestsconsultations2nd opinion returns. Recognizes unsafe working conditions and takes corrective action. Follows OSHA regulations for PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) such as lab coats, gloves and protective shields when in contact with blood and body fluids. Participates in unit based quality improvement initiatives. Attends and participates in staff meetings and in-services or obtains information presented. Retrieves and analyzes Anatomic Pathology reports and requisitions. Tabulates TAT, autopsy rates, clinical pathological correlations and quality assurance data. Maintains records and files accurately within regulatory compliance and computer tracking system. To qualify you must have a High School or GED 1-2 years Collecting and reporting of Blood Bank data and statistics Strong communication; both oral and written, multitasking detail orientation, organizational customer service and interpersonal skills Strong computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Excel Word PowerPoint and Outlook Knowledge of statistical computation analysis data collection and reporting NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $45,860.07 – $70,553.95 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138400_RR00100611 Medical Assistant – (FGP) *on site – West Palm Beach* Job ID: 1138400_RR00100611 Facility: NYU Langone Health in Florida Shift: Monday – Friday Department: Administrative/Office Support, FGP Med Assoc West Palm Beach (F128) NYU Langone Health in Florida We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Medical Assistant in our West Palm Beach Family Group Practice (FGP). The Medical Assistant is responsible for assisting physicians and/or Advanced Care Practitioners and nurses in providing patient care.  This role is responsible for validating patient identifiers, preparing patients and rooms for examination, measuring and recording vital signs, drawing blood and collecting other lab samples. The Medial Assistant is also responsible for administrative tasks such as scheduling appointments answering phone calls and performing data entry. • Escorts patients to exam rooms • Cleans and stocks exam rooms • Measures and records patient vital signs • Obtains and processes blood samples as per NYULH policy • Supports quality initiatives by following FGP guidelines for collecting and documenting information in the EMR • Promotes a positive patient experience • Communicates effectively with providers and administrative staff escalate issues • Answers phone calls • Reviews and respond to in basket messages • Follows up on Rx refill requests • Assists physician with patient intake & transcribing visit into EPIC Patient Experience and Access Works collaboratively with colleagues and site management to ensure a positive experience and timely resolution for all patient interactions and inquiries whether in person by phone or via electronic messaging Shares ideas or any observed areas of opportunity to improve patient experience and patient access with appropriate leadership i e ways to optimize provider schedules how to minimize delays increase employee engagement etc. Clinical & Administrative Responsibilities Completes necessary intake which includes obtaining patient vital signs and other tests within defined scope of practice as needed Follows guidelines for validating patient medical record when accessing and updating information including patient name and date of birth Ensures exam rooms and treatment areas are cleaned per infection control standards after each patient Ensures the appropriate translation services or equipment is in place prior to the start of visit Assists with blood/specimen collection and ensures proper handling and processing of patient specimens as as per organizational policy & procedure Performs Point of Care testing such as: EKG Glucose Testing and Pregnancy Test Urinalysis following organizational policy & procedure and with documentation of any required competency in place Preps the appropriate patient encounter ensuring that all relevant information for visit is up to date including bloodwork radiology images medications and past medical history Reviews and imports any “Prepare for your Visit”  “Outside Information” and patient history prior to provider encounter Supports best practice workflows for MIPS by updating medical records with patient vital signs and Histories Immunization Medical & Surgical  May also be required to scan and/or upload diagnostic reports according to their description and link them to their associated order in Epic Assists physicians with procedure and/or set up according to the specialty where necessary Cleans and sterilizes designated equipment after use following organizational policy & guidelines and with documentation of required competency in place Reviews appropriate downtime procedures as it relates to patient visit Completes annual competencies such as Fire Safety Hazardous Waste Medsled HIPPA compliance etc. Accompanies physician into exam room and transcribes history including history of present illness past medical and surgical history family and social histories medications and allergies physical exam laboratory and radiologic orders as dictated by the MD and document accurately the physician’s encounter with the patient Documents patient orders including laboratory tests radiology tests medications etc. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or the equivalent completion of a Medical Assistant Program from an accredited institution OR upon hire hold a current medical assistant.  Certification from a Nationally Recognized accredited institution such as American Association of Medical Assistant AAMA ; American Medical Technologies AMT ; National Center for Competency Testing NCCT ; National Healthcare Association NHA Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; demonstrated ability in computer skills Ability to complete multiple tasks efficiently and thrive in a team work environment which pursues a positive patient care experience NYU Langone Florida is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view NYU Langone Florida’s EEO policies,please 1138317_RR00100878 Social Worker – Medicine Job ID: 1138317_RR00100878 Shift: M-F, 9a-5p Department: Social Work, NYU Langone Hospitals Social Services (H295) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Medicine. In this role, the successful candidate Under the Supervision of a Social Work Supervisor provides psychosocial assessment and counseling services including discharge planning to patients as assigned by the Department of Social Work Participates in interdisciplinary planning and unit/based interdepartmental meetings when requested Demonstrates knowledge of the organizations Service Standards and incorporates them into performance of duties Provides timely and effective psychosocial assessment and evaluations as required Uses clinical knowledge of psychosocial dynamics and interviewing techniques to gather social history define problems and develop a relevant treatment plan Partnering with Care Manager to ensure effective throughput Coordinates interdisciplinary information and recommendations into social work treatment plan and promotes timely post hospital/ discharge planning in the interest of patients/families Mobilizes community agencies and other support networks in the interest of patients/families Documents all social work activities in a timely manner according to departmental protocols Performs clinical duties in an independent manner with appropriate use of supervision Assists in ensuring that patients receive services in accordance with established departmental policies and procedures through review of medical records Is competent to care for patients of all age groups Regularly participates in individual/group supervision Prepares statistical documentation of work in assigned areas Demonstrates skill in presentation of psychosocial information in interdisciplinary rounds meetings and Rusk evaluation conferences Assists in the orientation of new staff or staff transferring to a new assignment When qualified i e three years post graduate SIFI eligible provides supervision to social work interns Conducts orientation patient/family groups educating and/or elaborating on information about diagnosis treatment options for post hospital care etc To qualify you must have a Masters Degree in social work or its equivalent e g a higher degree from a social work program that is registered by the New York State Education Department as qualifying for licensure from a recognized college or university program accredited by the Council on Social Work Education CSWE New York State licensure as a Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW or a New York Education Department issued limited permit. Lic Social Worker – NYS-Permit, Licensed Social Worker – NYS Previous experience in a hospital or health related organization NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $82,628.41 – $102,013.99 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138444_RR00100880 Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola Job ID: 1138444_RR00100880 Shift: Monday – Friday and Shifts Vary (Day and Evening) Department: Social Work, Dialysis, Mineola (W6127) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Social Worker – Per Diem – Outpatient & Acute Dialysis – Mineola. In this role, the successful candidate provides psychosocial assessments and treatment as well as consultation about patients and families to assist them and the health care team in coping with the patient’s hospitalization illness diagnosis treatment and/or life situation including emotional mental and substance abuse disorders. Provides psychosocial assessments of patients and families to identify emotional social and environmental strengths and problems related to their diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation Formulates develops and implements a plan utilizing appropriate social work interventions Documents findings plan and actions taken according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Treats and manages mental health and/or substance abuse problems Assists with screening identification management and treatment of victims of abuse neglect domestic violence rape etc Provides training and consultative services to other health care professionals Arranges procures and coordinates patient and/or family pre and post hospital or treatment needs Provides education to patients and families around issues related to adaptation to the patient s diagnosis illness treatment and/or life situation May utilize crisis intervention brief and long term individual group and family therapies Provides teaching and training for students and staff from social work and other disciplines Participates in multi disciplinary health care teams and provides leadership in representing the social work perspective to and being an advocate for patients and families Maintains records and statistics according to departmental and institutional guidelines and standards Attends and participates in staff committee departmental institutional and other administrative meetings and continuous quality improvement efforts To qualify you must have a Master’s Degree Social Work. Current and valid New York State Licensed Master Social Worker LMSW license or Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW license. 1-2 years Social work or social work internship in a health care setting or social service agency. Solid working knowledge of social work practice relevant medical and/or legal issues that impact patient care and medical center resources to access and provide for patient care needs. Excellent communication both oral and written interpersonal assessment counseling multitasking detail orientation and organizational skills. Basic computer skills including Microsoft Office especially Word Excel and PowerPoint. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48.00 – $48.00 Hourly. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1136769_RR00099109 Job ID: 1136769_RR00099109 Facility: Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Shift: Monday – Friday 9a-5p Department: Social Work, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone School Health-Behavioral Healt (P66044) Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, a designated Level 3 Medical Home, is the largest federally qualified health center network in New York State, and the second largest in the nation. It includes eight primary care sites, 40 school-based health centers and dental clinics, four day care centers, the nation’s largest dental residency program, and New York State’s largest behavioral health program. The network also includes 12 community medicine sites providing care to disenfranchised New Yorkers, comprehensive HIV services, chemical dependency programs, and a family support center that offers educational, vocational, and other social support programs. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about Family Health Centers at NYU Langone and interact with us on We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Supervisor-School Behavioral. In this role, the successful candidate The Supervisor of School Behavioral Health is responsible for supervising behavioral health staff working in school based health centers The supervisor will be responsible for providing in person supervision review of paperwork and consultation by phone as needed In this role the supervisor will also ensure that his or her supervisees are in compliance with OMH JCAHO and NYU policies and standards Centers with Behavioral Health Programs to assure compliance with OMH and JCAHO standards Works in cooperation and collaboration with school BH and physical health dental staff and other school personnel to ensure the highest level of care to patients Assists in audit preparation for School Health and School Behavioral Health Programs Supervises Staff Psychologist and Social Workers Works with Clinicians to ensure Clinicians maintain accuracy and completeness of required records reports and files in accordance with NYU LFHC JCAHO and SOMH standards for quality care and quality charting Complies with established NYU Lutheran Family Health Centers and departmental policies and procedures objectives e g Lateness/Absenteeism dress code non smoking safety environmental and infection control and others Attends meetings as required and participates on committees as directed Provides assistance and guidance to School Behavioral Health Clinicians in assessment and intervention to patients in crisis or patients in need of emergency assistance Participates in performance management activities Implements and adheres to policies which assure the confidentiality of client communications in accordance with HIPAA SOMH and with the Joint Commission on Accreditation of health Care Organizations JCAHO standards Completes annual performance evaluations for all supervisees Conducts chart utilization reviews and works with supervisees at all School Based Health To qualify you must have a Masters in Social Work MSW or PhD or PsyD This position demands a high degree of competence and knowledge in the practice of psychotherapy with school age children/ adolescents adults and families as well as experience in supervising social workers and/or psychologists Educational Requirements: Masters in Social Work MSW and a NYS Licensed Clinical Social Worker LCSW or PhD or PsyD and licensed in NYS as a Clinical Psychologist Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s network provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. NYU Langone Hospital-Brooklyn is an equal opportunity and affirmative action employer committed to diversity and inclusion in all aspects of recruiting and employment. All qualified individuals are encouraged to apply and will receive consideration without regard to race, color, gender, gender identity or expression, sex, sexual orientation, transgender status, gender dysphoria, national origin, age, religion, disability, military and veteran status, marital or parental status, citizenship status, genetic information or any other factor which cannot lawfully be used as a basis for an employment decision. We require applications to be completed online. If you wish to view Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $66,415.19 – $110,691.98 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138465_RR00100659 Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn Job ID: 1138465_RR00100659 Shift: Monday and Wednesday 11AM-7PM. Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 9AM-5PM. Department: Administrative/Office Support, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Med-Family Phys (P68708) We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Family Physician Patient Services Associate, Required Bilingual Spanish – Brooklyn. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Service Associate performs diversified clerical functions in Registration/Information Appointments Patient Care modules and other areas such as Cashiering and Medical Records Duties may vary depending upon the needs of the work site Maintains the security and confidentiality of patient information at all times Greet all patients family or other related individuals while maintaining excellent customer service at all times Other functions as assigned by a supervisory staff Demonstrates an awareness of and respect for coworkers/patients cultural backgrounds Provides translation assistance as needed to facilitate the patient and provider interaction Reports problems with workflow conflicts further skill training and/or other related concerns to supervisory staff Works in conjunction with the healthcare team participating in site improvement efforts accepting coverage assignments Realizes integral role as part of a healthcare team and is an active participant regarding flow patient care process issues/suggestions barriers to care and safety concerns Discharge functions in accordance with LFHC discharge polices including but not limited to: a create follow up appointments in accordance with the providers instructions b create appointment for specialty services including radiology and ensure referrals are in place c print all necessary documents for patients to take home appointment records referrals and lab/radiology forms d distribute Metro Cards when appropriate Telephone functions in accordance with LFHC telephone polices including but not limited to: a answer phones timely in a friendly customer service manner including identifying the facility s name and PSA s first name b identify the nature of the call and act appropriately c take messages if necessary d confirmation calls for upcoming appointments Electronic Health Record eHR competencies in accordance with LFHC eHR polices including but not limited to: a scanning insurance card photo ID and consents and other forms as directed b capture patient photo for the eHR c web enable all eligible patients with email addresses d facilitate patient flow by changing visit status for office visit including Check out when discharged e Failed Appts Change status to No Show and assign for recall Monitor and address Recall bins as per Failed Appointment policy Financial functions in accordance with LFHC Financial polices including but not limited to:a Insurance eligibility verification at every visit b collect Co pays Deductibles Self Pay Rates when applicable c uninsured patients Determine eligibility for other financial programs and assist with application completion d performs Cashiering tasks as assigned Registration functions in accordance with LFHC Registration polices including but not limited to: a visit registration b translation needs & documentation c verification of demographic information including Home Address Proper phone number Email address d verification of Primary Care Provider e verify Site Indicator f obtain Photo ID and Insurance ID Card g obtain consent for treatment h offer new patient packages inclusive of LFHC programs and services contact phone numbers after hour information HIPAA and advance directive information To qualify you must have a HS Diploma Required 2 years relevant experience Strong customer service and communication skills Proficient in MS Excel Word and Outlook Familiarity or prior experience with office setting Prior customer service experience Must be articulate with good interpersonal skills Must have knowledge of computer keyboard able to type a minimum of 20 words per minute Must be able to accurately enter data Willingness to devote the time required completing assigned tasks on schedule NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,947.64 – $52,966.90 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 1138601_RR00100095 Job ID: 1138601_RR00100095 Facility: NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn Shift: Flex shift Department: Administrative/Office Support, NSG-Patient Experience (L176933) NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn is a full-service teaching hospital and Level I trauma center located in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. The hospital is central to a comprehensive network of affiliated ambulatory and outpatient practices, and serves as NYU Langone Health’s anchor for healthcare access, growth, and delivery in the entire borough. At NYU Langone Health, equity, diversity, and inclusion are fundamental values. We strive to be a place where our exceptionally talented faculty, staff, and students of all identities can thrive. We embrace diversity, inclusion, and individual skills, ideas, and knowledge. Learn more about NYU Hospital – Brooklyn We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Patient Experience Associate. In this role, the successful candidate The Patient Experience Associate welcomes and screens all visitors vendors patients and employees entering the hospital using excellent communication skills The Patient Experience Associate operates independently and is responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring visitor and employee screening policies are enforced Responsible for access control into the hospital by ensuring all patients, visitors, vendors, and employees are properly screened as per hospital guidelines and policies. Demonstrates knowledge of NYULH current guidelines and polices related to visitor, patient, vendor, employee screening. Ensure visitor and employee screening polies are enforced by asking appropriate health screening questions. Properly takes the temperature of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Triage and escalate clinical concerns if patient fails screening to appropriate clinical departments. Collaborate and interact with the interdisciplinary team members & departments to support the needs of visitors, patients, vendors, and employees (i.e. collaborate with Security team for visitor/patient transport to Emergency Department, etc.) Ability to independently interact with visitors, vendors, patients, and employees entering the hospital in a prompt, respectful, and helpful manner through excellent communication skills. Assists with instruction/education of proper personal protective equipment (PPE) use, and provides masks to those entering facility without proper PPE. Maintains strict confidentiality related work information (in accordance with HIPPA) Cooperates and interacts with the interdisciplinary team members to escalate clinical questions and concerns of patients, visitors, vendors, and employees. Assists with escorting patients to their appointment/procedure if necessary Have the ability to efficiently and effectively respond to information request and ability to multi-task. Round in the units as needed, specifically targeting new admissions, greeting patients and family members and documenting interaction in iRound tool; As a member of the health care team, be visible, engaging and acts as a liaison for patients/families as needed and escalate any issues or concerns to the patient relations department; Perform other duties as assigned. To qualify you must have a REQUIREMENTS: Bachelor Degree and 2 years of customer service experience especially as it relates to clear empathic communication and the ability to quickly & effectively triage escalations Attention to detail organization and ability to navigate potentially stressful situations Must be self motivated and able to operate independently NYU Langone Hospital – Brooklyn provides its staff with far more than just a place to work. Rather, we are an institution you can be proud of, an institution where you’ll feel good about devoting your time and your talents. If you wish to view NYU Langone Hospital- Brooklyn’s EEO policies, please NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $47,308.39 – $50,000.00 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. 100228-370 Virtual Interview Day – Sleep Technologist Job ID: 100228-370 We have an exciting opportunity to join our team as a Sleep Technologist. Performs other duties as assigned. Gather and Analyze Patient Information – Review history, physical information, medications, procedure request, and study protocol. Complete and verify documentation. Explain the procedure and orient the patient to the sleep center. Testing Preparation Procedures – Prepare and calibrate equipment required for testing to determine proper functioning and make adjustments, if necessary. Apply electrodes and sensors according to accepted published standards. Perform appropriate physiologic calibrations to ensure proper signals and make adjustments, if necessary. Perform routine positive airway pressure (PAP) mask fitting. Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow procedural protocols [such as Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT), Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT), parasomnia studies, PAP and oxygen titration, etc.] to ensure collection of appropriate data. Follow lights out procedures to establish and document baseline values (such as body position, oxyhemoglobin saturation, respiratory and heart rates, etc.). Perform polysomnographic data acquisition while monitoring study-tracing quality to ensure signals are artifact-free and make adjustments, if necessary. Polysomnographic Procedures – Document routine observations, including sleep stages and clinical events, changes in procedure, and other significant events in order to facilitate scoring and interpretation of polysomnographic results. Implement appropriate interventions (including actions necessary for patient safety and therapeutic intervention such as continuous and bi-level positive airway pressure, oxygen administration, etc.). Polysomnographic Procedures – Follow lights on procedures to verify integrity of collected data and complete the data collection process (e.g. repeats the physiological and instrument calibrations and instructs the patient on completing questionnaires, etc.). Demonstrate the knowledge and skills necessary to recognize and provide age specific care in the treatment, assessment, and education of neonatal, pediatric, adolescent, adult, and geriatric patients. Polysomnographic Record Scoring – Assist with scoring sleep/wake stages by applying professionally accepted guidelines. Assist with scoring clinical events (such as respiratory events, cardiac events, limb movements, arousals, etc.) with center specific protocols. Assist with the generation of accurate reports by tabulating sleep/wake and clinical event data. Service Management and Professional Issues – Comply with applicable laws, regulations, guidelines and standards regarding safety and infection control issues. Perform routine equipment care and maintenance and inventory evaluation. Maintain current CPR or BCLS certification. Demonstrate effective written and spoken communication skills. Demonstrate appropriate social skills. Demonstrate ability to follow direction. Respond to study participants procedural-related inquiries by providing appropriate information. Inspect and maintain sleep study related equipment and inventory. Explain the procedure and orient the patient for either in center or home sleep apnea