A 5 5.5 B 5 6 C12D 1 2 E55.5Figure: CPL 01 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 578 2024 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 579 2024 Figure: CPL 01A NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 580 2024 Figure: CPL 02 Figure: CPL 03 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 581 2024 Figure: CPL 4 Reference InchMIN MAX B 5 6 E 5 5.5 Figure: CPL 4 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 582 2024 iv. Power Systems & Equipment (AHU's, Chillers, etc.) fed from emergency power sources shall have their associated DDC controllers and DDC devices fed from the same emergency source. All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller, etc.) is on emergency power. If emergency power is not available or perceived as not available, notify the NYULH facility management team that emergency/standby power is not available for controller use and NYULH staff will provide direction. Any DDC controller that’s powered with Emergency Power shall be connected to a UPS power source. This includes Terminal units for Critical Spaces. All control power, 24V or otherwise, shall be protected with a line filter, surge suppressor, electrical breaker, and control fuse (last two need discussion). a. For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking: • Power to terminal unit controls shall be 120VAC with enclosure mounted 24VAC step down transformer, fuse and disconnect switch. b. For Fan Coil Units: • Power to fan coil unit controls shall use a line voltage to 24VAC step down transformer, fuse, and disconnect switch. • Control power shall come from the line side of the fan coil unit power (upstream of the disconnect), to prevent communication loss when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. a.c. Control Transformer General • Transformer shall be sized as follows for optimal performance and overheat issues. o Control Panels: Total VA of all controllers in the panel on the same power loop x 1.5 = Transformer size o Controllers with actuator: Total VA of all controllers and actuators on the same power loop x2 or x3 based on total devices = Transformer size Product • Manufacturer: Functional Devices, Inc. • Models: o 50VA Part No.: TR50VA005US o 75VA Part No.: TR75VA005 o 100VA Part No.: TR100VA005 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 583 2024 b.d. Uninterruptible Power Supply for Network Hardware General • The UPS shall be monitored at the nearest network switch via an IP network wire in conduit. Product • Manufacturer: Schneider APC • Model: SUA500PDRI H Execution • Ensure UPS is wired as per manufacturer's specifications. v. Wire General • All wiring to be in accordance with manufacturer requirements, local and national electric codes, and latest NYC Building Code. • Cables for 120/24 VAC wiring, communications wiring and low level signal wiring (i.e., 4 20ma, 0 10v) shall always be run in separate raceways. • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be plenum rated cable. • All wiring in Mechanical Equipment Rooms, communications or electrical closets shall be in approved raceway (conduit, EMT, etc.). • Wiring within inaccessible ceilings shall be installed in conduit. • Wiring within drywall cavities or enclosure or beneath raised floor construction shall be in conduit. • The supporting of wiring from other equipment, mechanical ductwork or piping shall not be acceptable. Provide individual supports for conduit and free air plenum cable. • No 300 volt insulated (rated) wiring shall terminate within or occupy any enclosure containing conductors operating at a voltage greater than 300 volts. This particularly applies to any analog or digital I/O wiring entering 460 volt motor starter enclosures or motor control centers. • Wire jacket colors shall comply with the Wire Jacket Color Requirements. • Wire jacket/insulation must be compatible with duct seal putty. • BMS conduit color labelling shall be Orange background with Black lettering BMSBlack on OrangeTEXT • Wire Jacket Color Requirements Cables supporting BMS wiring shall adhere to the following colors for their outer jackets: • CAT6 Ethernet: Blue • Fiber: Orange • 24VAC power: Teal with Yellow Stripe • Twisted Pair (Third Party Integration) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 584 2024 o BACnet MSTP: Orange o Modbus RTU: Yellow • Analog and Binary I/O signals: o 2 Conductor: White with Blue Stripe o 3 Conductor: White with Yellow Stripe o 4 Conductor: White Products • See subsections for product requirements Execution • Open wiring strung above accessible ceilings shall be bundled together and protected from mechanical damage. • Wiring shall be independently supported from the building structure with bridal rings and clips. • All control wiring internal to the panel shall be wired from the I/O of the controller to the terminal strip. Under no circumstance will field wiring be terminated from inputs or outputs directly to the controllers. • Terminations shall be mechanically and electrically secure. Twist type wire nuts shall not be acceptable. Insulated tinned copper lugs shall be provided. • Perform continuity and point to point testing for all wiring installed. • Wire stripping and terminations shall follow the correct installation procedure as shown below: a. Analog & Digital Signal Wire General • Wire jacket/insulation shall be compatible with duct seal putty. Product • 3 Conductor Shielded o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 2335# the last digit(s) indicates the color • 2 Conductor Shielded NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 585 2024 o Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. o Model: 232# the last digit(s) indicates the color b.a. IP Network Wire General • All CAT 6ethernet cable runs shall not exceed 100 meters in length. Product • Manufacturer: BeldenWindy City Wire, Inc. / Vextra • Model: 7882A D151000 c.b. Non IP Network Wire General • This section applies to cabling used in the following applications o ARC156 o MS/TP Networks o Modbus RTU Product • Manufacturer: Windy City Wire, Inc. • Model: 043006AL S d.c. Power Wire See NYU Langone Health Electrical Design Guidelines for power wire requirements at voltages equal to and above 120 Volts. e.d. Wire Labels & Labeling General • All wires terminating at each field device, terminal box, field equipment cabinet, DDC control unit, or any other terminals shall be identified by labels. • Identification shall be consistent with the tagging indicated on the approved shop drawings. • All communication wiring shall be tagged with the previous and post devices on the network. • The same identification code shall be carried through from the field device to the final termination point. • After identification is complete, the wire markers shall be anchored using a single layer of non yellowing clear Mylar tape. Product • Brady clip sleeve type non metallic wire markers or equivalent. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 586 2024 Execution • After identification is complete, the wire markers shall be anchored using a single layer of non yellowing clear Mylar tape. H. Smarts i. Alarms General Requirements: • All digital input points shall be alarmed on change of state from normal state. Include a 60 second time delay on make unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • All analog input points shall be alarmed. Provide adjustable deadband to prevent nuisance alarms. Include a 300 second time delay on make and appropriate deadband unless specified in Alarm Parameters. • Nuisance alarms (i.e., repeating alarms) will be corrected during warranty period. Nuisance alarms are considered alarms that repeat due to poorly configured alarms or if smart alarms are not installed and cause unnecessary lower tier alarms. • All systems that are capable of automatic restart after a shutdown/alarm condition shall be able to have remote alarm clearing and acknowledgement ability through the BMS. Local clearing of alarms shall only be necessary with systems that can only be reset locally. • For projects on the Manhattan Main Campus and Long Island Main Campus, alarming shall be integrated in to Virtual Facility Alarm Triage. Smart Alarming: • Smart alarming feature shall be implemented when an equipment failure will trigger multiple secondary alarms causing unnecessary data transmission and operator alarm acknowledgement. Smart alarming shall be utilized to prevent unnecessary alarming of points. • Smart alarms shall be implemented for the following systems: o Air handling units o Chilled, condenser and hot water systems o Secondary water systems o Generators, ATS and breaker interfaces o Rooms that are monitored via door contacts and room pressure monitors o The following are some examples:  Air Handling Unit Run Failure On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on or air handling unit shut down due to a safety device, or if an air handling unit is off, provide a software program which shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and humidity sensor associated with the air handling unit. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 587 2024 On failure of an air handling unit to operate when commanded on, an alarm should trigger for the fan status loss, but no pressure sensor alarm or supply air temperature alarm or normal room temperature alarms. On failure of an air handling unit with more than one (1) fan, one (1) alarm shall generated for failure. All individual fan fail alarm will disabled. All VAV boxes or other terminal units reliant on airflow from the AHU will have their alarms disabled upon air handling unit failure to run or has not proven status. All safety devices (pressure switches and freezestats) shall remain active and capable of alarming. In general, space temperature alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall be disabled. However, extreme room temperatures or freezing preheat temperatures should annunciate (Note: There may be critical rooms such as cold rooms which will continue to be monitored for alarm.) All space pressurization alarms in areas served by the air handling unit shall continue to be monitored for alarm. Upon a smart alarm activation, the alarm message must read that this is a smart alarm and some alarms have been suppressed. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Secondary Water System Failure On failure of all pumps associated with a secondary water system, provide a software program that shall disable all alarming capability of each temperature, pressure and flow sensor associated with the water system. All alarms associated with equipment that is disabled (i.e., off) shall be inhibited from operating. When a piece of equipment is off, all alarms associated with the equipment, as well as alarms associated with areas served by the equipment or secondary equipment served, shall be disabled. Note: Alarms associated with critical areas shall not be included within smart alarming programs. Alarms include Cold Rooms, Animal Holding Rooms, Patient Isolation Rooms, etc. Verify all smart alarming functions with NYULH facility management prior to implementation.  Generators, ATS and Breakers Interface All failure alarms associated with generator interface shall be enabled and annunciated. All normal operating status alarms shall be disabled. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 588 2024 All breakers status alarm, such as open/closed status, shall be disabled. Breaker failure and tripped alarms shall be enabled. All ATS transition statuses alarm, such bypass to emergency, bypass to normal, connected to emergency, etc. to shall be enabled. All additional alarms shall be disabled.  Filter Alarm All filters shall be provided with a differential pressure transmitter that shall be monitored at the BMS. Dirty filter alarms shall be generated when the differential pressure across the filter has exceeded setpoint (adj.). Filter alarms based off runtime are not acceptable. Alarm Parameters: • Alarm parameters shall be structured as follows: AlarmDelay on Make (seconds) Delay on Break (seconds) Multiple Fan Array Fail Individual360060Multiple Fan Array Fail Unit3000Single Office Fan Fail6000Single Lab Fan Failure3000Single Critical Fan Failure600Pump Failure600Fan/Pump VFD Common Alarm1800600Fan Filter846003600Fan Temperature 60060Fan/Pump Pressure (Static/DP)30060Fan AirFlow72003600VAV Room Temperature60060VAV AirFlow3600600Leak Detector6010Freeze Detector6010 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 589 2024 Alarm Syntax: • Alarm syntax shall be structured as follows: o Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm, Contact Shop  Note for “Contact Shop”, for Manhattan Main campus use the shops listed below. For Real Estate properties, Long Island Main Campus, Brooklyn Main Campus and LOH contact the facilities managers for proper shop designations. o Example: **** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm Contact Energy Building Automation Shop • Return to Normal syntax shall be structured as follows: o Return to Normal (Priority Designation, Critical, Building, Floor, System, Alarm) o Example: Return to Normal (**** Critical Tisch 18th Floor AHU 4 Supply Fan Failure Alarm) • Priority Designation: o ***** 5 Star Alarms:  Animal Facility/Vivarium Related Alarms  Animal Facility/Vivarium Fan failures, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Labs ABSL 3 Fan Failures, Space Temp/Humidity, Reheat Systems, Steam Systems  Critical Fan Failures Affecting Operating Room, Isolation Rooms, Protective Environment Rooms (Fans include air handling unit supply, return, and exhaust fans)  Emergency Power Related Alarms  Medical Air System Alarms  Compressed Air Systems  Procedure Rooms Alarms  Data Center Alarms o **** 4 Star Alarms:  OR Temperature and Humidity Alarms  OR Fan System Failures  OR Reheat System Alarms  Sump Pit Overflow Alarms  Ejector Pit Overflow Alarms o *** 3 Star Alarms:  Vacuum System Alarms  General Reheat and Perimeter Space Alarms  General Lab Fan Failure Alarms  Sump Pit Alarms  Ejector Pit Alarms  Walk In Box Alarms o ** 2 Star Alarms:  Office Fan Failure Alarms  General Lab Temperature and Humidity Alarms  General Lab Airflow Alarm NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 590 2024 o Non Critical Alarms:  Office Temperature and Humidity Alarms • Critical vs. Non Critical: o The designation “Critical” shall be included in the alarm syntax only for 2, 3, 4, and 5 star alarms. For all other alarms not listed above, the designation “Non Critical” shall be used. • Building Abbreviations (for NYULH Manhattan Main Campus only): o Alumni Hall ALH o Berg BRG o Coles Student Laboratory Coles o Energy Building EB o Greenberg Hall GBH o Medical Science Building MSB o Millhauser Mil o Tisch Hospital TH o Schwartz Health Care Center HCC o Science Building SB o Skirball Institute Skirball o Smilow Research Center SRC o Kimmel Pavilion KP • Floor: o Identify floor where alarm is active (e.g., 2nd Floor, Lobby, roof) • System: o Utilize equipment tag or designation (e.g., AC3 7, AHU TH 18 1, Walk In Box Room 225, Filtration Water Holding Tank) • Alarm: o Identify actual device in alarm (e.g., Cooling Tower Trip Alarm, Fan Failure Alarm, Common Alarm, High Humidity Alarm). • Contact Shop (for NYULH Manhattan Main Campus only): o Energy Building Automation Shop  All BMS Related Communication Alarms and Outages  All BMS AHU, VAV, HW System Alarms (Energy to Reassign Post Control Signal Confirmation/Verification)  All BMS AHU Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop)  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment HVAC Shop) o HVAC Shop  All CHW FCU Related Alarms  All Pneumatic Related Alarms  All HVAC (AHU, FCU) Filter Related Alarms  All Room Pressure Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  All Low and Medium Steam Pressure Alarms, including HW System DP Alarms  All AHU Related Humidity Alarms (Dual Assignment Energy Shop)  Building Engineers  All CHW Plant Related Alarms Building to reassign these alarms when applicable NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 591 2024  All Fire System Alarms  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All High Steam Pressure Alarms  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Plumbing Shop is Primary) o Plumbing Shop  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Pump Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Medical Air System Alarms o House Electricians  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Power Related Alarms o Refrigeration Shop  All DX AC/AHU related Alarms, including DX FCU’s  All Walk In Box Alarms  Refrigeration system cooling towers o Note: The term “dual assignment” means two (2) “shops” are assigned to these alarms. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Nursing • The BMS shall automatically generate alarms, via e mail to IPC and Nursing based on operating room humidity levels and pressurization level. E mail addresses shall be provided by the Facility Management Team. • Operating Room Humidity Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a humidity level either below RH or above RH, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. o If the humidity level continues to remain either below RH or above RH for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an email alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Operating Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. Note: Entrance door must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Protective Environment Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Isolation Room, Central Sterilizer, Bone Marrow, Air Locks, Vestibules, BSL3 Labs, etc.) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. The respective NYULH shop NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 592 2024 will be required to respond within 30 minutes. Note: Each door serving the room must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. ii. Trends General Requirements: • Trends shall be established for each hardwired and software generated point associated with a system. For each project, trends shall be identified as critical or non critical trends by the Facility Management Team. Trend Point Collection: • Trends shall be stored for a minimum of 5 years prior to being overwritten. • Each trended point shall be supported by collection point hardware capable of storing a minimum quantity of trend samples for each point before any samples are overwritten. Where controllers do not have this capability due to either the number of trended points or inability to store trends, provide additional controllers to provide the required trend storage and memory capabilities. • Transmission between the point of collection device (DDC controller) and the trend storage device is critical. Each trend shall have its buffer size (the value at which the controllers sends its stored trend data to the collection software) set to a value equal to the smaller of either four (4) times the trend rate (i.e., the amount of samples per hour) or a maximum quantity of samples which. Under no circumstances shall the buffer value be set to more than the maximum quantity of samples. • Each time the buffer reaches its sample limit, the entire volume of software samples stored in the controller shall be sent. The collection software shall review the data and eliminate duplicate values (i.e., previous values already sent which have been successfully received at the collection software). • Critical trends shall have a software routine included (separate from the “standard” trending software) that regularly monitors the trend data and alerts the user when expected trend data has not been received. For each trend, provide a software routine that shall monitor the last received trend point’s time stamp and identify when it has “aged” sufficiently to generate an alarm. Aging limit shall be exceeded when the last data point in the trend has a time stamp which is greater than two (2) times the value of the buffer size divided by the trend rate. This software routine cannot reside in the DDC controller which is the collection device for this data set. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 593 2024 Analog Trend Points: • The following analog type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval or change of value passed a percentage of the sensor’s maximum value: o Space temperature  Non critical space: 5 minute interval as standard  Critical space: Change of value every 1 °F or 0.5°C o Space differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint (e.g. record COV every 0.05 in. change of a space with a 1 in. setpoint) o Air handling unit supply, return, mixed air and preheat coil discharge air temperature o Change of value every of setpointAir handling unit supply and return air humidity  Change of value every of maximum value (rh) o Air handling unit supply, return and outdoor airflow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Duct static pressures  Change of value every % of setpoint o Water temperatures  Change of value every of setpoint o Water systems differential pressure  Change of value every of setpoint o Water flow rates  Change of value every of setpoint o Btu meters (5 minutes as standard) o Set points, associated process variables and control signals (Note: sample rate based on variables listed above) o UPS voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o PDU voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o Distribution board voltage per phase, current per phase, kW output Digital Trend Points: • The following digital type points shall be trended based on change of state/valuean adjustable time interval: o Run status (e.g., pump, fan, air conditioning unit, chiller, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Safety device (e.g., pressure switch, freezestat, leak detector, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Dry contact input from third party equipment such as packaged air conditioning unit common alarm contact (10 minutes as standard) o Door contact associated with room pressure monitors (10 minutes as standard) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 594 2024 Controller Data Trend Points: • The following status/data points shall be trended based on change of state: o Controller online/offline status o Controller reboot iii. Instrumentation a. Actuator Engineering Valve Actuators • Hydronic control valve actuators shall be sized to close against a differential pressure equal to the design pump head plus . • Actuators shall be sized based on valve operating torque values and safety factors stated by the valve manufacturer as well as the maximum torque developed during the stroke of the valve when operating under maximum working conditions. Actuators shall be of sufficient torque to smoothly position valve disk to maintain specified leakage classification. Louvered Damper Actuators • Actuator mounting arrangement shall be outside the airstream. • Wherever possible, actuators shall be direct coupled type, which require no crank arm and linkage, and shall be capable of direct mounting to a jackshaft. In applications where it is not feasible to direct mount couple actuators to damper shaft or jackshaft, provide a substantial (strong) linkage between the actuator and damper. • Actuator linkage arrangement shall be such as to permit normally open or normally closed positions of the dampers as required. • Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 595 2024 b. Control Valve Engineering • Control valves shall be sized using the following basic formulas: c. Temperature Sensor Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. • Manufacturer’s standard thermistor temperature sensing elements are only acceptable for use serving space temperature monitoring of VAV terminal units. • The use of thermistors shall not be acceptable for other air and water applications. iv.iii. Controller Networks a. RS 485 Networks • Communication loops shall always be daisy chained in a line topology and shall not be T tapped or spliced in anyway • Unique MAC address and Device ID for each controller on the network. • A repeater after every 31 devices or after 2000 feet (whichever is reached first), and at each brand of a network comprised of multiple manufacturers/product types NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 596 2024 • Have one of the following in order to prevent signal distortions due to echoing and add bias: o A BT485 biasing terminator at each end (unless the segment is less than 10 feet long) o A ½ watt, 120 ohm terminator at each end v.iv. Controller Network Hierarchy General • The system architecture shall consist of a network of independent, stand alone direct BACnet I/P based digital control units and BACnet MSTP unitary controllers communicating over a two tier local area network. Each control unit shall perform all specified control functions independently, including scheduling, alarming and storage of trend data. Failure of one (1) control unit shall have no effect upon any other unit in the network. • Each direct digital control unit shall communicate with each other and with the existing servers. The DDC units, servers and workstations shall interface to the main communication network via multiple multi port managed communication switches. • To minimize network traffic and promote network health, point mapping shall be conducted as follows: o All direct mapping of networked points shall be through a main control router/global controller. o Direct peer to peer point mapping from controller to controller shall only be accepted if:  Controllers are on the same network bus.  No control router is present between controllers. o Outside Air point mapping: The outside air network points shall be pushed out (broadcast out) to all controllers with programming referencing these points. Locally Separated BMS Local Area Network (LAN) • BMS network shall be independent and isolated from MCIT WAN with one physical connection via CAT6/Ethernet. This connection will between an approved NYULH BMS LAN switch and MCIT switch. • Critical campus network topology shall be utilized for hospital infrastructure and Article 28 compliance spaces (e.g. operating, procedure, vivarium, Bio Safety Labs). This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • Midsize campus network topology shall be utilized for clinical practice and laboratory infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • General campus network topology shall be utilized for office and residential infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 597 2024 • Approved NYULH core, distribution and access switch shall only be used. All switches shall have of their ports unused at the completion of the project. For an interim measure in the event of network switch failure, an approved unmanaged switch shall be installed until faulty switch is in kind replaced by the BMS vendor. BMS network architecture and connection to MCIT shall be approved by the Facilities Management Team before procurement. See "Existing System Architecture Diagrams" section in References for topology diagrams referenced above. vi.v. Controller Network Protocols • Communication protocol between servers, workstations, DDC and unitary controllers shall utilize ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet. No manufacturer variations to ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet published communication protocol standards and rules will be accepted. Each BACnet communication alarm and subscription services shall be configured as Confirmed service or Unicast transmission. • For MS/TP communication efficiency, the following requirement must be adhered to: o All Devices must have a unique MAC ID and Device Instance. o All Software device instance are unique on the entire network. o Baud Rate must be the same of all devices including repeaters for given MS/TP trunk. o COV (Change of Value) Increment shall be set on ALL Analog Input and Value parameters with a number no less than 1. o Max Master on ALL Global Controllers shall be set according to Highest Node on MS/TP network trunk + 3. o EOL (End of Line) terminators shall be places on each end of a MS/TP trunk. Terminators resistance shall be determined by the BMS vendor recommended standard. No intermediate device shall have an EOL. o Voltage Polarity of RS 485 communication cable shall confirmed before adding additional controllers/devices. o MS/TP total length of twisted pair communication cable shall be less than 4000 ft. with 18 AWG, less than 2000 ft. with 22 AWG o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as 24 VAC power o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as conductors driven by Binary Outputs. o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run near electrical motors and only inside VFD plastic enclosures o Separate MS/TP communication loops shall be utilized for different equipment manufacturers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 598 2024 vii.vi. Integrations General • OEM equipment identified below shall be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP; however, the BMS is capable of communicating via other industry standard protocols such as Modbus. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the equipment, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. o Equipment provider will be responsible for equipment start up and to verify that communication to BMS is established and functional. The BATC Contractor must participate with the start up to ensure proper communications. o On completion of the interface, the interface shall be demonstrated to the NYULH Facility Management Team and issues identified after start up demonstration will require corrective action by the responsible party. Equipment • At a minimum, the following equipment shall be interfaced with the BMS: o Electric meters o Variable frequency drives o Packaged air conditioning units o Chillers o Room pressure monitors Metering • Metering shall be provided at the service entrance of each utility to each building. • Hard Wired Interface: o Mass flow (all non electric meters) o BTU (energy meters only) • Utility meters shall only use Modbus TCP protocol for integration. • Utility Metering will be Bi Directional meters and shall be set up with positive values for exporting, and negative values for importing. o At Manhattan Main campus the meter data shall be pulled into Blue Pillar system. • Meters shall be integrated to the BMS when utilized for control, regardless of whether or not hard wired I/O data points are provided. • Meters shall also be integrated to third party data acquisition platforms as required. • Projects shall provide building level submetering for steam, chilled water, natural gas and electricity. Chilled water submetering should be provided at each chiller. Specialty medical / lab equipment requiring chilled water shall be metered separately per manufacturer’s recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 599 2024 Variable Frequency Drive Interface • Furnish and install a communication interface between each fan and pump variable frequency drive and the direct digital control system. Preferred communication protocol shall be BACnet. BATC Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating with the VFD manufacturer for communication protocol requirements per equipment per project. Interface shall allow for simultaneous two way communications between the VFD and BMS. This functionality shall allow an operator to remotely monitor and adjust all variables via the BMS operator workstation. • Hard wired Interface: Fans (Air Handling Systems, Heating and Ventilation Units, Exhaust Fans and Cooling Tower Fans) o Start/stop o Speed control o Safety shutdown (i.e., pressure switch and low temperature thermostat) o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic o Note: Fan run status shall be monitored via current sensing relay, provided and installed by BATC Contractor. • Hard wired Interface: Pumps o Start/stop o Speed control o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic • Communication Interface. The following input points shall be monitored via the BMS: o Speed feedback o Output frequency o Current (amps) o % torque o Power (kW) o Kilowatt hours o Operating hours o Drive temperature o All diagnostic warning and fault information o Remote fault reset o Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected o Bypass selected o Motor running in bypass mode o Motor running in inverter mode o Note: The BMS shall monitor the Auto position of the VFD serving the fan via the communication interface specified herein. On receiving indication that the fan is not operating in “Auto”, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 600 2024 Packaged Air Conditioning Units • Packaged air conditioning units to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the units. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the unit, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Chillers • Chillers to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the chiller. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the chiller, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Room Pressure Monitors • Room pressure monitors to be provided with BACnet MS/TP communication interface option. viii. Power a. Emergency Power • All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller,