Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 1 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022APPLICATIONNYU Langone HealthPURPOSETo provide a written plan of action for planned and/or emergency shutdowns of utility systems and essential equipment. POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION1.0 POLICYThis policy outlines procedure and actions that shall be implemented for any planned or emergency utility and/or essential equipment shutdowns affecting patient care or other essential services. Facilities/Engineering at each campus and Real Estate shall take the lead in planning, coordinating and assessing all potential risks associated with a planned and/or emergency utility or essential equipment shutdown. 2.0 APPLICATIONNYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: •All NYULH owned and leased facilities •All employees, contractors, and consultants of NYULH3.0 DEFINITIONSControlling contractor (Contractor): A prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity which has the overall responsibility for construction of the project (e.g. planning, quality, and completion)Facilities trade staff: Includes forepersons, mechanics, helpers, maintenance workers, etc. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 2 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022Manager: The Facilities/Engineering Manager or Real Estate ManagerPM: The NYULH construction Project Manager4.0SCOPEUtility systems and essential equipment include, but are not limited to the following:•Medical gas and vacuum systems•Major heating ventilating and air conditioning (HVAC) equipment•Fire suppression system •Boilers and steam supply systems•Electrical supply and distribution systems•Domestic hot and cold water supply systems•All sanitary waste disposal systems•Heating and hot water systems•Emergency generator and fuel systems•Elevators •OT Operational Technology Systems (e.g. BMS, lighting control, etc.)5.0UTILITY SHUTDOWN RESPONSIBILITIESIn preparation for all planned utility shutdowns, the Construction PM or the assigned Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall: 1.Develop the scope of work which identifies the system(s) or equipment requiring shutdown, the potential areas affected, the shutdown duration, proposed dates and any need for coordination or intervention of a utility company (e.g. Con Edison, National Grid, PSE&G, etc.).2.Obtain and review the most current facility/utility drawings and documents for the systems and equipment. Buildflow web based system is the central hub for all facilities drawings. Where applicable, the PM shall distribute these documents to the controlling contractor. 3.Coordinate with Facilities trade staff (e.g. Plumbing, Electrical Shop) or Real Estate and/or building management personnel to perform onsite tracing of the Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 3 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022impacted systems. This tracing is to identify and verify the valves, circuit breakers, etc. that must be isolated and/or addressed as part of the shutdown. Any planned shutdown shall be postponed until an up to date drawing is verified. 4.If the shutdown is part of a construction project, upon request, the PM shall engage the architect, engineer, controlling contractor and/or applicable subcontractors to assist with verification of system design, onsite tracing of the system and identification of valves, circuit breakers, etc. that need to be isolated as part of the shutdown. 5.Coordinate the development of up to date diagrams/plans showing the work locations, the areas impacted and the means of isolation. 6.Arrange an initial planning meeting with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate and building management representatives, the controlling contractor and subcontractors, as appropriate. During the planning meeting, the scope of work, drawings, potentially impacted utilities/equipment/areas, shutdown duration, proposed dates and any need for coordination and intervention of a utility company (e.g. Con Edison, National Grid, PSE&G, etc.) should be reviewed. 7.The PM, Real Estate or Facilities Manager shall communicate and coordinate as appropriate to schedule and perform a “trial” short term shutdown(s) to verify the areas, equipment and systems that will be impacted by the shutdown. The PM and/or Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall be responsible for ensuring facility leadership is notified as per Section 8 of this policy.8.Once this “trial shut down” assessment has been completed, the PM or Facilities/Real Estate Manager shall conduct a walkthrough with Facilities/Engineering, Real Estate and building management, the controlling contractor and applicable subcontractors, the Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S, and other necessary parties (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control) to complete a risk assessment and determine if Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) and/or Infection Control Risk Assessments (ICRA) are required. 9.There shall not be any work on live utilities, systems or equipment without the prior approval of Facilities/Engineering and/or Real Estate leadership and Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 4 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022EH&S. Such work shall be conducted in accordance with the NYULH Safety Policy 167 Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout).10.Submit controlling contractor’s and any applicable subcontractor’s proposed Method of Procedure (MOP) to the Facilities/Engineering and/or Real Estate Manager. If necessary this shall also be distributed to Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S for review. MOP should be distributed at least 2 weeks before the scheduled work. 11.Develop and implement an appropriate campus or Real Estate specific water management plan if the shutdown involves a domestic water disruption. 12.Coordinate a meeting with affected area leadership to discuss details of the shutdown and any support requested and/or needed. This meeting shall include information as to why the shutdown is needed, the proposed date and time, the projected duration, area(s) and service(s) affected, support needed, contact information, ILSM/ICRA or other safety protocols, procedures in the event of unanticipated system or area impact, etc. Subsequent communications to affected area leadership shall comply with requirements of Section 8 of this policy. 13.Provide email reminders/notification to site specific Facilities Operation, Real Estate manager(s) and building management personnel no less than 72 hours (for leased properties verify with time requirement) in advance for any shutdown or as per specific directive. All email notifications should include risk analysis and risk reduction information strategies to be implemented.14.Routine maintenance that does not impact occupants or services may not require the 72 hour notification.15.Requests for planned shutdown support, must be entered into the appropriate work order system. At leased sites, the PM shall coordinate with Real Estate to request support from building management.16.Enter all required permit requests (e.g. hot work, penetration, etc.) in ATG system. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 5 of 8Revised: 07/05/20226.0EMERGENCY UTILITY SHUTDOWN RESPONSIBILITIESUpon notification or discovery of a need for an emergency utility shutdown, the designated Facilities/Engineering or Real Estate Manager shall be identified and shall:1.Immediately confirm urgency, type and extent of utility or equipment interruption, impact to services, affected area(s) and any other pertinent information. If the staff or responsible person on site believes there is impending life safety or significant property damage (e.g., fire/burning/smoke, flooding, etc.) they are authorized to perform the utility shutdown immediately and notify per Section 8.0 accordingly.2.In consultation with Campus Safety Officer/Designee, EM+ER, EH&S and other necessary parties (e.g. Infection Prevention and Control) determine the scope of necessary repair(s), estimated duration of downtime, and if outside support will be needed for resolution or repair, etc. A risk analysis shall be completed to determine if Interim Life Safety Measures (ILSM) and/or Infection Control Risk Assessments (ICRA) are required. The effectiveness of safety measures already in place shall be confirmed. 3.Obtain, review, validate and provide (as needed) the most up to date facility/utility drawings and/or system information to Facilities trade staff or Real Estate contractor working on restoration4.Coordinate a meeting with EM+ER and affected area leadership to review details of the interruption and the steps/measures put in place to mitigate loss of service. This meeting shall also include up to date situational details regarding the interruption, impacted area(s) and equipment, plan, schedule and scope of work needed to get system back on line, ILSM/ICRA and other safety protocols required, procedures in the event of unanticipated system or area impact, and any other operational resources impacted or needed. 5.Follow up written communications to affected area leadership shall comply with Section 8 of this policy.6.Where applicable, restore/reactivate system(s) in accordance with the NYULH Safety Policy 167 Control of Hazardous Energy (lockout/tagout). 7.Verify complete and successful restoration once services are restored. Communicate to affected areas and leadership accordingly.Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 6 of 8Revised: 07/05/20227.0PRE SHUTDOWN HUDDLE PLANNED AND EMERGENCY WORKA “huddle or time out” shall be executed immediately before a planned shutdown or emergency work to restore a service. The PM, designated Facilities/Engineering or Real Estate Manager shall: 1.Identify appropriate points of contact for communication and periodic notification updates for the duration of the shutdown or emergency work.2.Verify all preparations and safety measures are in place, all required personnel and equipment needed is on site. 3.Establish and verify operation and mode of communication method (e.g. portable radios or cell phone) to be utilized during the shutdown and/or emergency work. 4.Establish clear communication and work procedures to abort or extend the shutdown or emergency work. 5.Assign staff to walk or “canvas” areas within and outside the scope of work/shutdown. 6.Perform a final field verification and communication to the affected area/program immediately before a shutdown. Field verification should be done with a use of a checklist and approved diagrams. This should be done in real time via read off confirmation to on site Facilities/Real Estate team using portable radios, cell phones and/or in person. 7.Once utility is shut down, implement a minimum of 15 minute “stand down” before any disconnection or demolition to confirm areas affected. If unexpected areas are determined to be impacted, implement procedures to abort shut down, provide interim support to affected areas and initiate procedures to restore services as appropriate and feasible.8.0COMMUNICATION AND NOTIFICATIONThe PM or designated Facilities/Real Estate manager shall coordinate communications and notifications for affected areas, leadership and other stakeholders. At a minimum, notifications should always include the reason for the shutdown, proposed date and time, projected duration, area or service(s) affected, support provided, safety protocols in place and contact information. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 7 of 8Revised: 07/05/2022The following communication protocols shall be implemented as appropriate:•Communication and notifications to impacted departments and personnel may be via email, webex meetings, and direct contact, etc. Email notification should always follow direct contact. •RED+F leadership and EM+ER shall be notified of emergency shutdowns as soon as practical. RED+F, EM+ER and the managers of the affected areas will evaluate the need and frequency of subsequent communications. •All broadcast email notifications regarding utility shutdowns shall require VP of Facilities or VP of Real Estate review and approval before distribution. •Periodic communications should be sent to leadership and the management of affected areas for shutdowns as needed. In the event the shutdown is anticipated to extend beyond the scheduled timeframe, an update communication should be sent to affected area(s) and leadership as soon as practical. Any additional follow up coordination and communications shall be scheduled as required.•When the utility or equipment is back online and service is restored, a closing communication shall be sent to affected departments and stakeholders (including leadership and EM+ER, where appropriate). 9.0FACILITY/SYSTEM DRAWINGS The Commissioning Group of the Facilities Operations Department shall be the governing body to ensure facilities drawings are up to date. For offsite properties, Real Estate shall take the lead and consult with Facilities Commissioning as necessary to update or generate facility drawings. The Buildflow web based system shall be the central hub for all facilities drawings.10.0APPROVAL AND SIGNOFF The Senior Directors of Facilities/Engineering and Real Estate, in consultation with the Campus Safety Officer/Designee and EH&S (as necessary), shall provide final approval and sign off of any planned utility and essential equipment shutdowns. They shall also review and approve procedures and plans for emergency utility shutdowns as described in this policy. High risk and broad impact shutdowns, including medical gases, shall also require review and approval by the VP of Facilities or VP of Real Estate. Safety Policy ManualPolicy No. 169Policy: Enterprise Utility and Essential Equipment ShutdownPage 8 of 8Revised: 07/05/202211.0RELATED POLICIES•115: Fire Alarm and Water based Fire Protection Systems: Inspection, Testing, Maintenance, and Impairments•120: Construction Safety Requirements•133: Medical Gas Outlets and Piping•145: Interim Life Safety Program•157: Electrical Safety•164: Pre construction Risk Assessment •167: Control of Hazardous Energy (Lockout/Tagout)•Infection Control Risk Assessment: Deviation from Established Environmental Controls or Process•Campus/Real Estate Specific Water Management PlanIssue Date07/2022ReplacesNewReviewed byD. Bensimon, Facilities OperationsJ. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant ManagementM. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities OperationsR. Cohen, Facilities OperationsW. Dempsey, NYULH LI Safety OfficerN. Ejaz, NYULH B, Safety OfficerB. Farrell, NYULH RED+F Real EstateM. Figueroa, Environmental Health & SafetyD. Lilly, Facilities OperationsB. Lorino, Facilities OperationsD. McCarthy, NYULH B, Facilities OperationsP. Mulyk, Facilities Operations (Commissioning)D. Resnick, RED+F Design and ConstructionD. Rubbo, NYULOH, EngineeringNYU Langone Health Construction Safety CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC CommitteeNYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC CommitteeFamily Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC CommitteeSummary of RevisionsRevise dateSectionChanges


Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 1 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect personnel and the environment from unnecessary exposure to mercury To provide a reasonable timeline for removing mercury from NYULH To ensure the proper management of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances POLICY AND GENERAL INFORMATION 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: All NYULH owned and leased facilities All fully owned Faculty Group Practices All employees, students, licensed independent practitioners (LIPs), volunteers, and vendors of NYULH The primary departments and divisions impacted by this program are: Clinical and research laboratories Clinical Engineering Pharmacy Physician group practices RED+F and its contractors Supply Chain Management Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 2 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 2.0 Policy NYULH shall eliminate the use of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances where safe, effective alternatives exist. Where there is no acceptable substitute, NYULH will inventory and properly manage products, equipment, and substances containing mercury, with the goal of phasing out all remaining mercury containing materials as new alternatives are identified. 3.0 Definitions Elimination of mercury means as close to complete elimination as can be achieved with available alternatives. 4.0 Common sources of mercury batteries cantor or Miller Abbott tubes laboratory products (for examples, see Appendix A) laboratory stains and fixatives computer monitors electron microscopes esophageal bougies and dilators fluorescent lamps pharmaceuticals sphygmomanometers (blood pressure devices) switches and relays thermometers thermostats 5.0 Responsibilities 5.1 The Sustainability Manager is responsible for: − developing and implementing the Mercury Elimination Program (the Program) − training personnel on the requirements of the Program Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 3 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 − coordinating the inventory of mercury containing products and equipment − reviewing the Program annually and updating as needed − assisting and advising personnel in implementing the Program through appropriate mercury elimination strategies − compiling and reviewing the mercury inventory to inform goal setting, phase out plans, and additional support needed for implementation of the Program, and reporting as part of yearly Practice Greenhealth Environmental Excellence award application and the Healthier Hospital Initiative reporting requirements 5.2 Facilities (Facilities Management, Facilities Operations, Engineering), Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction are responsible for: − ensuring that their staff and vendors adhere to the requirements of the Program − disseminating design and purchasing guidelines to their staff and ensuring that procurement is conducted in accordance with the Program − ensuring that a copy of this policy is included and/or referenced in all contracts that apply − ensuring that specifications for purchase are in accordance with Clinical Engineering recommendations and requirements Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for: − providing the Sustainability Manager with an inventory of facilities related mercury containing products and equipment, including product codes, SKUs, and product information. RED+F Design is also responsible for: − incorporating the elimination of mercury in its Design Guidelines, and including information on alternatives where available (e.g., see Appendix B). 5.3 Department chairs, heads, and administrators are responsible for: − ensuring their staff operate in accordance with the Program − disseminating design and purchasing guidelines to their staff, and ensuring that procurement is conducted in accordance with the Program Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 4 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 − ensuring specifications for purchase of clinical instrumentation are in accordance with Clinical Engineering recommendations and requirements − ensuring their departments maintain product codes, SKUs, and information for items containing or suspected of containing mercury − notifying EH&S immediately in the event of a mercury spill − investigating and evaluating available mercury free alternatives as needed − ensuring staff receive training on the Program as needed 5.4 Dental practices are responsible for using amalgam separators for collecting and recycling of elemental mercury as per the NY Dental Mercury & Amalgam Recycling Law of 2002. 5.5 Supply Chain Management is responsible for: − working with departments and consultants in conjunction with the Group Purchasing Organization (GPO) and suppliers to advise, negotiate, and purchase materials that meet the standards of the Program wherever possible − responding to requests for purchasing information based on product information (manufacturer ID). Note: it is not Supply Chain Management’s responsibility to keep track of product codes, SKUs or information for items containing or suspected of containing mercury − ensuring the department operates in accordance with the Program when pursuing contracts, supplier agreements, and purchasing 5.6 Clinical Engineering is responsible for making recommendations on clinical devices in accordance with the Program and providing recommendations on alternatives as they enter the market. 5.7 Environmental Health and Safety and NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (NYULH LI) Housekeeping are responsible for: − providing or coordinating mercury spill response and clean up when departments are not equipped to do so independently − arranging for proper disposal of mercury containing products, equipment and chemicals as needed Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 5 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 6.0 Design and purchasing guidelines 6.1 Clinical Engineering has eliminated clinical equipment that contains mercury in facilities it services. 6.2 All staff members who develop specifications for purchasing shall adhere to the Program and seek out mercury free alternatives, particularly for pharmaceutical and laboratory products. Resources for finding new mercury free alternatives include: − Appendix B − Clinical Engineering − Health Care Without Harm and the World Health Organization (http://www.mercuryfreehealthcare.org/) − NYULH contractors, architects, and consultants − NYULH Group Purchasing Organization − Practice Greenhealth − Supply Chain Management − U.S. Green Building Council 7.0 Exemptions UV, florescent and LED light bulbs, ballasts and mercury containing batteries. Mercury containing pharmacy products if no safe, effective alternative exists. Mercury containing chemicals in laboratories when suitable alternative chemicals are not available. Laboratories shall avoid using mercury containing staining solutions, reagents and fixatives. 8.0 Management of mercury containing products, equipment, and substances 8.1 Where no acceptable substitute is available, or the alternative is not adequate for intended use, personnel shall manage mercury containing products, equipment, and substances in accordance with the documents referenced at the end of this policy. 8.2 Labeling: Mercury containing products, equipment or chemicals shall be physically labeled as mercury containing. Light bulbs/lamps, ballasts, and Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 6 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 batteries do not need to be labeled. Labels can be obtained from the Sustainability Manager, GBH SC2 122. 8.3 Spill response: In the event of a mercury spill, staff shall isolate the spill and coordinate prompt clean up. − If the spill is from a thermometer, a mercury spill clean up kit is available, and staff are trained to use the kit, they may use the kit to clean the spill. If not, they should consult with EH&S or NYULH LI Housekeeping. − If the spill is from a blood pressure machine, or there are any safety concerns regarding a spill of any amount, staff should contact EH&S or NYULH LI Housekeeping immediately. 9.0 Training 9.1 The Sustainability Manager shall provide personnel with training on the program. 9.2 Departments are responsible for ensuring their staff receive information and training on the Program and on any mercury stored or used within the department. 10.0 Annual reporting 10.1 The Sustainability Manager shall compile the following information annually from departments using mercury containing products, equipment and chemicals. Information on exempt items as specified in Section 7.0 does not need to be collected. − inventory with exact location specified of stationary/fixed mercury containing products and equipment, including clinical devices and building materials − records of any mercury containing products and equipment that have been removed permanently in the prior 12 months − purchasing records of known mercury containing materials or equipment for annual procurement estimates and identification of product categories for which alternatives still need to be identified − modified or newly implemented plans for elimination and timelines for elimination of existing mercury containing materials that have acceptable alternatives Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 7 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 10.2 The Sustainability Manager shall report necessary components of the above information to Practice Greenhealth, the Healthier Hospital Initiative, and any additional sustainability initiatives as relevant. Related Safety Policies 107: Disposal of Computers and Electronic Equipment 108: Chemical Waste Minimization and Disposal Program 108a: Hazardous Waste from Contractors (Construction & Building Maintenance) 108c: Universal Waste Management Program 121: Hazard Communication Program 134: Chemical Hygiene Program. Appendix A Mercury containing Items Used in Labs Appendix B Mercury free Products Approved for Purchase Issue date 3/2021 Replaces 2/2020 Reviewed by J. Agins, Sustainability Manager F. Alvarez, RED+F Design J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities E. Cintron, Real Estate E. Cohen, Clinical Ambulatory Operations, Faculty Group Practice R. Cohen, Facilities G. DeCaro, Strategic Sourcing N. Ejaz, NYULH B Safety Officer B. Farrell, Real Estate J. Kang, Environmental Health and Safety J. Krysiuk, Lab Quality J. Marcus, Supply Chain Management J. Paul, Office of Science and Research J. Pfeifer, Logistics and Distribution D. Rubbo, LOH Facilities R. Shea, Value Analysis R. Stevens, RED+F Project Support Office L. Wetstein, Clinical Engineering NYU Langone Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy 170 Policy: Mercury Elimination Program Page 8 of 8 Revised: March 26, 2021 Summary of Revisions Revisions date Section Changes March 2021 Throughout Changes NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island January 2020 Throughout Reorganizes information for greater consistency with other Safety Policies. Reorders sections. Eliminated information that is included in other Safety Policies. References those policies. Minimizes redundancy. Edits for clarity Purpose Updates statement to be more concise 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 2.0 Changes name from “Introduction” to “Policy”. Clarifies policy. (3.0) Eliminates “Background” (information deemed unnecessary) 3.0 New. Information previously in “Introduction” 4.0 New. Information previously in “Background” Reviewed by Adds review by Adds review by NYU Langone Hospital Long Island NYULH B Facilities, Clinical Engineering, Pathology, Real Estate, RED+F Design, February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC and FHC to NYU Langone 3.0 Defines NYU Langone December 2016 7.6 Clarifies spill response Review by: Adds reviewers for Lutheran, and HJD, Lutheran, and LFHC Environment of Care Committees Summary of Revisions Adds Summary of Revisions Safety Policy 170, Appendix A Mercury containing Items used in Labs Reviewed: January 29, 2020 This list is not complete. For additional information, request that vendors disclose mercury concentration on a Certificate of Analysis. − Acetic acid − Ammonium reagent/Stone analysis kit − Antibody test kits − Antigens − Antiserums − Buffers − Calibration kits − Calibrators − Chloride − Diluents − Enzyme Immunoassay test kits − Enzyme tracers − Ethanol − Extraction enzymes − Fixatives − Hematology reagents − Hormones − Immunoelectrophoresis reagents − Immunofixationphoresis reagents − Immu sal − Liquid substrate concentrate − Negative control kits − Phenobarbital reagent − Phenytoin reagent − Positive control kits − Potassium hydroxide − Pregnancy test kits − Rabbit serum − Shigella bacteria − Sodium hypochlorite − Stains − Standards − Sulfuric acid − Thimerosal − Tracer kits − Urine analysis reagents − Wash solutions Safety Policy 170, Appendix B Mercury free Products Approved for Purchase Reviewed: January 29, 2020 Material or Instrument Accepted Mercury free Product/Brands/Alternatives Thermometers Enviro Safe digital thermometers Sphygmomanometers Welsh Allyn 767 Wall and Mobile Aneroids Gastrointestinal Equipment Tungsten filled bougies TTS balloons Wire guided polyvinyl dilators (Savary) Float Controls Mercury free alternatives as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines Thermostats Electronic thermostats as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines Pressure Gauges Electronic alternatives as designated in Engineering Design Guidelines B5 fixative Zinc alternatives where appropriate Zenker’s Solution Zinc alternatives where appropriate