arthritis. Comparing Rates of Progression In one arm, 100 at-risk patients will receive a subcutaneous injection of the drug guselkumab for 24 months. In a second arm, another 100 patients will be similarly randomized and begin the intervention or placebo after a 6-month delay. In a third arm of 150 patients who don’t wish to be treated, the researchers will use the non-biologic standard of care as a negative control. “We’ll compare the rate of progression between those who are treated and those who are not treated,” Dr. Scher says. Another primary endpoint will test whether the intervention improves subclinical inflammation within the first six months, as seen on ultrasound. In addition, the trial may reveal key biomarkers of progression, including whether the skin and gut microbiome, circulating immune cells, and molecules such as cytokines help predict progression from predominantly skin to joint inflammation. Even if early intervention does not prevent outright progression from psoriasis to psoriatic arthritis, it might help attenuate the severity of disease. “In addition to providing crucial insights into the progression of psoriatic disease, this study could change the paradigm for treatment.” “It may very well be that this is not the right drug to prevent progression,” Dr. Scher says. “But by looking at biomarkers, any implicated immune and environmental pathways might point toward cells or molecules that could be targeted in subsequent prevention efforts.” Amping Up the Search for Better Therapeutics The PAMPA prevention trial is being complemented by a larger National Institutes of Health (NIH)-funded program—the Accelerating Medicines Partnership (AMP) Recently, AMP expanded its project on autoimmune disorders to include psoriatic disease as a major focal point. The public-private partnership is pairing rheumatologists and dermatologists from NYU Langone and other participating centers in the PAMPA study with the NIH and pharmaceutical companies to speed the development of better therapeutic options. Part of the program’s focus will be on understanding the mechanics of disease progression, using data from the natural history of disease similar to the third arm of the PAMPA trial. In addition to tracking biomarkers such as potential changes in the microbiome and circulating immune cells, participants will undergo biopsies of the skin and joint synovium. “The skin may have the code for who progresses, why, and how,” Dr. Scher says. “We want to find which cells that reside in the skin are being attracted—the term we use is homing—to the joints to produce and promote inflammation.” Beyond identifying which patients progress, the larger research effort may clarify how the disease migrates and responds to therapy. “Is there anything in the tissue that tells us whether some person will respond to medication X and not to medication Y, or vice versa?” Dr. Scher says. “What’s in that code may help us adopt a desperately needed precision medicine approach.” Rebecca Haberman, MD, is a clinical instructor in medicine and assistant director of the Psoriatic Arthritis Center. Her research and clinical interests include rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Insights into an inflammatory condition’s root cause leads experts toward new models of care. A growing body of knowledge is emerging through research at NYU Langone Health around VEXAS syndrome, a constellation of inflammatory symptoms whose origin was, until recently, a medical mystery. The condition primarily impacts men over age 50 and carries a high mortality rate. , an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics , was a member of a large research collaborative that first characterized the condition —and its link to somatic mutations in the gene UBA1 —by studying a cohort of patients with undiagnosed, multisystem inflammatory conditions referred to the NIH. With his team’s latest study estimating VEXAS syndrome to be more common than previously thought , the group’s ongoing efforts are focused on identifying at-risk groups and strategies for diagnosis and treatment. “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions.” “Our research demonstrates a higher prevalence of VEXAS syndrome than more commonly recognized rheumatologic or hematologic conditions; now it must be considered in differential diagnosis of patients who exhibit symptoms,” says Dr. Beck. Diagnosing the Undiagnosed Revealed within the newly identified syndrome’s name are its associated characteristics—vacuoles in blood cells, the E1 enzyme, X-linked, autoinflammatory, and somatic. With symptoms ranging from high fevers and joint pain to vasculitis and dermatitis, it is typically misdiagnosed as other rheumatologic or hematologic conditions until standard treatment for those conditions fails to elicit durable improvement. “We now understand that diagnosis of VEXAS syndrome involves pinpointing a set of hallmark features—including elevated inflammatory markers and low blood counts or anemia—within a spectrum of symptoms,” Dr. Beck says. Quantifying the Prevalence To estimate the prevalence of pathogenic variants in the general population, Dr. Beck and his team analyzed the electronic health records of 163,096 primarily White men and women over the age of 50 within the Geisinger Health System who agreed to have their blood screened for signs of genetic disease. Of those screened, 9 male and 2 female individuals were found to harbor somatic variants associated with VEXAS syndrome, which correlates to 1 in 4,269 American men and 1 in 26,238 women over 50 likely to have or develop the syndrome. Every patient genetically identified also had a clinical manifestation of the syndrome. Building a New Care Model Addressing the wide-ranging symptomatology observed in VEXAS syndrome demands a multidisciplinary approach involving rheumatologists, hematologists, pulmonologists, dermatologists, and other specialists. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition.” In more severe cases, the condition can cause recalcitrant thrombocytopenia and anemia in the setting of myelodysplastic syndrome, effectively a progressive bone marrow failure requiring transplant. To contain inflammation, high-dose steroids, JAK inhibitors, and other immunosuppressants can be helpful—though those treatment options are limited in their efficacy and durability. Often, patients need to cycle through multiple medication regimens and are unable to taper from high doses of steroids without symptom recurrence. Aligning Clinical Resources and Research Dr. Beck and rheumatology colleague , are now working to establish a referral center and a multispecialty clinic model for comprehensive care, where they can test new therapies that target the condition’s genetic basis and its associated pathways. Their research priorities include pinpointing populations at greater risk for VEXAS syndrome, searching for additional genetic associations, and better understanding treatment responses, which Dr. Beck says becomes increasingly important as awareness of the disease increases. “We’re aligning clinical resources and research to build our capacity for diagnosing and treating the condition,” says Dr. Ho. “The more patients referred to us, the more we hone the necessary expertise to manage their symptoms with comprehensive care.” Clinical Genetics, Rheumatology David B. Beck, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor of medicine and biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of the Center for Human Genetics and Genomics. He runs the Inflammatory Disease Genetics Program and specializes in the genetics of autoinflammatory conditions. Gary H. Ho, MD, is a clinical assistant professor in the Department of Medicine. His research interests include VEXAS syndrome, enteropathic arthritis, and gout. Sounding the Alarm on the High Prevalence of VEXAS Syndrome Lupus Study Will Offer Unique View of Patients’ Overall Health New CDC-funded research will examine comorbidities, disparities, quality of life, and home testing options. An Expanding View of Behçet’s Disease Under new NIH grants, a renowned research and clinical program seeks new insights into Behçet’s and related diseases. Presenters at the 2022 ACR Annual Convergence Meeting NYU Langone Health rheumatologists joined international colleagues in Philadelphia, November 10–14. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Laryngeal diseases are commonly divided into two mutually-exclusive diagnostic categories: mucosal injury or neuromuscular/functional disorders. Yet this distinction does not account for potential interactions between tissue types, as occurs in other organ systems. Until recently, no such relationship had been described in the vocal folds. Recently, NYU Langone Health researchers published the first-ever study of interactions between cells from the vocal fold mucosal and underlying muscle in Annals of Otology, Rhinology and Laryngology Ryan C. Branski, PhD , the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, the team included Ryosuke Nakamura, PhD, an associate research scientist in the Department of Rehabilitation, and , associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. The researchers used tissue from rats, culturing mucosal fibroblasts and thyroarytenoid myoblasts in vitro “The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable. We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” The etiology of vocal fold disorders is diverse, and the efficacy of current interventions is variable,” Dr. Branski explains. “We need to gain a deeper understanding of basic disease processes to improve outcomes for patients with these conditions.” Seeking Clues from Lower Airway Disorders The team investigated whether a phenomenon known to occur in the lower airway might apply to the vocal folds as well: interactions between mucosal and muscular tissue. In asthma, for example, increased contractile properties of airway smooth muscle are considered a hallmark of the disease, together with mucosal inflammation. This combination of pathologies appears to be related to altered expression of contractile proteins—particularly, myosin light-chain phosphorylation—within airway smooth muscle. Downstream, overexpression of fast myosin heavy chain isoforms in airway smooth muscle enhances intracellular calcium signaling, Dr. Branski explains. Overexpression of calcium-sensing receptor, in turn, further exacerbates the abnormal cascade of mucosal-muscle signaling in asthma. A Surprising Reciprocity Dr. Branski and his colleagues hypothesized that injury to the vocal folds elicits similarly complex interactions between the vocal fold lamina propria and the underlying muscle. “As a first step to test this idea, we sought to investigate the effects of vocal fold fibroblasts on myoblasts,” he says. “Interestingly, however, our data show significant bidirectional effects between cell types.” “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being. Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The researchers analyzed fibroblast proliferation and migration in the presence of myoblast-conditioned growth media, using TGF-beta and other substances to induce the myofibroblastic phenotype. After 24 hours, they analyzed phenotypic shifts and cellular differentiation. Generally, the myoblasts favorably impacted fibroblasts (for example, decreasing Acta2 mRNA expression), while the effects of fibroblasts on myoblasts were unfavorable (for example, decreasing myosin heavy chain expression). “These findings suggest that laryngeal muscle health may contribute to mucosal well-being,” Dr. Branski observes. “Conversely, muscle dysfunction could potentially have a deleterious effect on the vocal fold mucosa.” The potential implications of these interactions warrant further investigation, he stresses. Ultimately, such research could lead to better treatment strategies—whether pharmacological, surgical, or behavioral—for a wide range of vocal fold disorders. Ryan C. Branski, PhD, is the Howard A. Rusk Associate Professor of Rehabilitation Research, vice-chair of research in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, and an associate professor of otolaryngology-head and neck surgery. His research interests focus on therapeutic approaches for diseases of the upper aerodigestive tract that manifest as speech, voice, and swallowing disorders. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong First image of Howard Rusk, MD, provided by the State Historical Society of Missouri. Since its founding in 1948, NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation has focused on providing patients with high-quality, innovative rehabilitation care and the recovery resources they need to lead full and rewarding lives. To quote Howard A. Rusk, M.D., widely considered the father of rehabilitation medicine and our program’s namesake: “To believe in rehabilitation is to believe in humanity.” Rusk’s very simple philosophy – that physical medicine and rehabilitation should involve the whole person – has driven Rusk Rehabilitation’s remarkable growth over the last 75 years. Today, our internationally recognized programs cover the full spectrum of rehabilitative services and our experts continue to be leaders in research and education, as well as clinical care. Celebrating Our 75th Anniversary Join us in New York City as we celebrate this important milestone in our history! Our one-day celebratory event will include a research symposium and reception, presentation of awards including the Rusk Award for Leadership and Innovation in PM&R, and a variety of other social and professional networking opportunities. September 22, 2023; 10 am–7 pm NYU Langone Science Building 435 E. 30th Street 1st Floor Room 1-03 To Register To register, visit this link Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 1) In a study, 21 adult patients participated in a neurorehabilitation program that included serial Coma Recovery Scale-Revised (CRS-R) assessments and access to brain injury specialists. Interventions included multimodal sensory stimulation therapies and neurostimulant medications. Researchers compared clinical features of patients who did and did not recover to the minimally conscious state (MCS) or better, defined as a CRS-R total score (TS) greater than or equal to 8, before discharge. The team also examined factors associated with best CRS-R TS, last CRS-R TS, and time on mechanical ventilation. ADAPTED FROM: Neurocritical Care , 2021 Oct 5;1-15. Study findings showed that patients had CRS-R assessments a median of 6 times before discharge, beginning a median of 48 days from admission, and 12 patients (57 percent) recovered to minimally conscious (MCS) before discharge, after a median of 8 days off continuous sedation. Recovered patients had lower body mass index (BMI), lower C-reactive protein levels, higher arterial pressures, and earlier fentanyl discontinuation. CRS-R scores fluctuated over time, and the best CRS-R TS was higher than the last CRS-R TS (median 8 versus 5). Earlier fentanyl and neuromuscular blockage discontinuation correlated with a higher last CRS-R TS. ADAPTED FROM: Study researchers conclude that early neurorehabilitation of patients with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19 can be accomplished in the intensive care unit (ICU). Hypoxia, systemic inflammation, sedation, and neuromuscular blockade may impact diagnostic assessment and prognosis. Consciousness fluctuations make serial assessments essential. Further research should investigate longer-term neurologic recovery and benefits of early rehabilitation. ADAPTED FROM: Early neurorehabilitation improves outcomes in patients with disorders of consciousness (DoC) after brain injury, but its applicability in COVID-19 is unknown. In a researchers led by Lindsey J. Gurin, MD , director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, found that such an approach could benefit these patients as well. “The results were encouraging. Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge.” During New York City’s initial pandemic surge, from March through May 2020, the team developed and implemented an early neurorehabilitation protocol for patients in the intensive care unit at NYU Langone Health with prolonged unresponsiveness after severe COVID-19. “The results were encouraging,” says Dr. Gurin. “Over half of our cohort recovered to minimally conscious or better before hospital discharge, achieving a clinical benchmark known to have relatively favorable long-term prognostic implications in DoC.”  “Fortunately, we had already developed a similar program for DoC patients of other etiologies,” notes coauthor Brian S. Im, MD, former director of the Brain Injury Rehabilitation Program. “We were able to adapt existing infrastructure to an unprecedented situation.” Neurology, Psychiatry, Rehabilitation Lindsey J. Gurin, MD, is director for Behavioral Neurology at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital, and an assistant professor of rehabilitation medicine, psychiatry, and neurology. Her research and clinical interests center on brain injury, dementia, Alzheimer’s, and behavioral disorders. Developing an Affordable, Smart Navigation System for the Visually Impaired Inexpensive wearables and cloud-based services could transform guidance support worldwide. Predicting Dysphagia After Elective Spine Surgery Research will clarify swallowing problems resulting from anterior cervical discectomy and fusion. The Rehabilitation Course for the World’s First Face & Double Hand Transplant Leading the National Plan to Study Long-Term Impacts of COVID-19 NYU Langone Health is mobilizing to oversee the NIH’s multi-site, multi-year RECOVER initiative. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” In June 2021, a multi-institutional team led by , an associate professor of rehabilitation medicine, published a white paper on the role of physiatry in COVID-19 inpatient rehabilitation in the journal PM&R Commissioned by the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, the paper advised on topics including pandemic-related changes in care delivery; health and safety of providers and patients; training requirements for physiatrists redeployed to COVID-19 units; and workarounds for inpatient rehabilitation facilities. A section on lessons for the future stressed countering burnout, early engagement of physiatrists, mastering the continuum of care, and fostering resiliency. “We’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” “The pandemic, for all its horrors, has created opportunities for improving care,” Dr. Whiteson says. “As physiatrists show their value in managing COVID patients and building collaborative processes with other specialties, we’ve opened a window for dialogue that could enhance strategic planning throughout the healthcare system.” Providing Guidance for Treating PASC Dr. Whiteson is also a leader of AAPM&R’s Multidisciplinary Post-Acute Sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 Infection (PASC) Collaborative, which brings together physiatrists with clinicians from other specialties—such as pulmonology, cardiology, and neurology—to develop guidance on best practices in rehabilitation for “long COVID” patients. The collaborative is publishing a series of guidance statements in . The first statement , on the assessment and treatment of fatigue in PASC, was released in August 2021. Its recommendations included strategies for phased return to activity, energy conservation, therapeutic diet, and pharmacologic therapy. “A key approach in all these areas is to encourage patients to follow the strategies independently,” Dr. Whiteson explains. “To optimize energy conservation, for example, patients should be educated in the ‘Four P’s’—Pacing, Prioritizing, Positioning, and Planning.” Patients should also be advised on ways to resume work, the authors suggest, as long as it does not worsen symptoms or lead to significant post-exertional malaise. Possible accommodations include limiting hours, working from home, adjusting physical aspects of work activities, using mobility aids as necessary, and taking more breaks. second guidance statement , on the management of cognitive impairments in PASC patients, was published in December 2021 with Rusk Rehabilitation associate professor Jeffrey S. Fine, MD , as its lead author. This paper offered recommendations for assessing and treating cognitive and neurologic symptoms, such as headache, brain fog, memory problems, executive function deficits, and visuospatial difficulties. In January 2022, Dr. Whiteson and the collaborative published a third guidance statement , on the assessment and treatment of breathing discomfort and respiratory sequelae. Drawing Lessons from the Front Lines Future guidelines will cover other manifestations of PASC, including its impact on cardiovascular and autonomic, behavioral and mental, and pediatric health. Each guidance statement will include a section on healthcare equity and incorporate input from patient advocacy groups. “We experience this syndrome one way as physicians, but patients experience it another way. It’s crucial to understand that,” notes Dr. Whiteson. Rusk Rehabiliation has long been on the front lines of treating both acute COVID-19 and its long-term health impacts. As the first wave of the pandemic impacted New York, Rusk experts shared their insights through a series of webinars , as well as the weekly Rusk Insights on Rehabilitation Medicine podcast and NYU Langone Health’s SiriusXM channel, “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” “Our experience in this area gives us a great deal to offer,” says , Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. “We were among the first centers to implement prone positioning and other rehabilitation procedures for patients hospitalized with COVID, and among the first to launch a clinic for patients with PASC.” Jonathan H. Whiteson, MD, is vice chair for Rusk Rehabilitation Clinical Operations, medical director of cardiac rehabilitation, and an associate professor of medicine and rehabilitation medicine. His research focuses on cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans has a significant impact on the health and quality of life of more than 30 million U.S. adults . Among veterans, it is one of the most common service-related disabilities related to military noise exposure. For those with severe hearing loss, the Veterans Affairs (VA) healthcare system offers comprehensive services, including hearing aids and cochlear implants, that differ from those available to Medicare patients. Cochlear implants can restore speech understanding in patients with severe hearing loss who experience life-changing difficulties such as loss of oral communication and have limited benefits from hearing aids. To date, there has been little research to clarify the factors influencing how and why veterans and their providers adopt certain technologies for severe hearing loss. , an associate professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery, is now leading NYU Langone Health researchers in exploring this question using unique databases within the VA system. “The VA is an optimal setting to study management of severe hearing loss due to unique access to data within the audiometric repository, which allows for identification of patient, system and provider factors associated with receipt of various treatment strategies,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” “Our long term goal is to confirm evidence-based treatments are available to those most severely affected by hearing loss.” The Pilot Study Dr. Friedmann and his team are conducting a pilot study of hearing loss, funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service, that incorporates video interviews with key stakeholders, including veterans’ primary care providers and audiologists, along with quantitative data from the VA’s robust audiometric and prosthetics database. “Optimal management of hearing loss requires a good understanding of the perspectives of various stakeholders,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Our multilevel analysis of the longitudinal VA dataset will allow for the identification of both the macro- and micro-level factors that impact patient care.” This mixed methods analysis will be used to clarify the prevalence, modes of treatment, and time to treatment of veterans with severe hearing loss, as well as identify factors associated with different treatment approaches. The researchers also plan a thematic analysis of semi-structured interviews to identify barriers and facilitators to particular treatment modalities. Hypothesizing Contributing Factors Despite guideline recommendations, cochlear implantation in the U.S. remains underutilized, with some studies estimating 6 to percent usage among potential candidates. While the precise reasons for cochlear implant underutilization remain unclear, experts believe that limited knowledge of candidacy criteria by primary care providers, poor patient understanding of outcomes, and disparities in reimbursement may be contributing factors. This project, Dr. Friedmann says, will be able to explore these and other factors using a repository containing hundreds of thousands of audiograms. “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes.” “Delays in implantation can prolong patient disability and may limit successful outcomes,” says Dr. Friedmann. “Understanding and addressing these barriers could represent a modifiable risk factor for eligible candidates.” Changing Patient-Provider Behaviors Ultimately, Dr. Friedmann believes that the delivery of optimal hearing care requires tailored treatments offered on the basis of specific degree of hearing loss and individual patient preferences within both the VA and civilian population. Education will also be key, for both patients and providers, Dr. Friedmann notes. “We hope our data will inform the development and testing of educational materials to achieve best practices in the treatment of this condition.” NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2024 AAOS Annual Meeting This February 12–16, NYU Langone Orthopedics researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons in San Francisco At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedic faculty present 39 posters, 31 e-posters, 34 papers, 31 videos, and 21 symposia, courses, and special sessions ( ). Notable sessions at this year’s conference included: Thursday, February 15 Podium Presentation: Use of Technology Improves Short-Term Clinical Outcomes in Total Knee Arthroplasty : Benjamin Schaffler, MD; Jonathan L. Katzman, BA; Muhammad A. Haider; Weston Buehring, BS; Matthew S. Hepinstall, MD, FAAOS : 11:29–11:33 am : West, Room 2001 Podium Presentation: Trimming the Risks: Weight Loss and its Effect on Obesity-Related Complications in Spine Fusion Surgery : Abel De Varona Cocero, BA; Camryn P. Myers, BA; Constance Maglaras, PhD ; Fares Ani, MD; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD, FAAOS Tina Raman, MD : 1:38–1:42 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 153 Podium Presentation: The Monitored Anesthesia Care–Soft Tissue Infiltration with Local Anesthesia (MAC–STILA) Technique Decreases Incidence of Short-Term Postoperative Altered Mental Status in Hip Fracture Patients Sanjit R. Konda, MD Abhishek Ganta, MD : 3:30–3:34 pm : South, Esplanade Ballroom 155 Friday, February 16 American Orthopaedic Society of Sports Medicine Specialty Session: Patients with Bilateral ACL Reconstruction (ACLR) Have 3X the Rate of Posterior Tibial Slope Greater than 12-Degrees Compared to Unilateral ACLR: MRI and Radiographic Evaluation : Sharif Garra, MD; Zachary Li, BS; Jairo Triana, BS; Naina Rao; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD : 8:15–8:20 am Rethinking the Costs and Benefits of SLAP Repairs A study by orthopedic surgeons at NYU Langone Health has demonstrated that a primary biceps tenodesis procedure yields better outcomes than a secondary biceps tenodesis performed after a failed SLAP (superior labrum anterior to posterior) repair. Orthopedic surgeons commonly see SLAP tears of the shoulder secondary to trauma and associated with overuse in overhead-throwing athletes and manual workers. An arthroscopic repair of the superior glenoid labrum where the biceps originates can maintain the patient’s anatomy, but the continued pull of the biceps on the labrum and other potential limitations have yielded a high rate of clinical failure after SLAP repair, especially among older patients. Many surgeons have traditionally reasoned that a failed SLAP repair could be revised with little or no harm to the patient by following up with a biceps tenodesis, which has a higher success rate but requires cutting the biceps and switching its anchor from the labrum to the upper part of the humerus. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” “Doing what we call the potentially ‘safer surgery’ by repairing it is not necessarily safer, it’s just that surgeons are more comfortable with that,” says study coauthor Division of Sports Medicine . Because a biceps tenodesis involves cutting the biceps and transferring it, patients and doctors often view it as a much more involved procedure. “In this study, we found that it’s better to do the primary biceps tenodesis, if it’s indicated, than to repair the SLAP tear,” Dr. Jazrawi says. “Starting with the SLAP repair is not without harm; patients may be compromising their potential outcome more than if they just had the primary bicep tenodesis to begin with.” Better Outcomes The retrospective comparison study, published in Arthroscopy, Sports Medicine, and Rehabilitation , compared 57 male patients who underwent a primary biceps tenodesis with 19 counterparts who underwent a secondary biceps tenodesis after an initial, failed SLAP repair. The researchers found that the primary biceps tenodesis cohort reported significantly better functional and pain outcomes (Figure 1). The study found no significant differences in the rate or timing of return to play, and none of the patients required a further shoulder surgery after the biceps tenodesis. Figure 1. A comparison of functional outcomes from primary and secondary biceps tenodesis. Adapted From: Lorentz NA, et al. Arthrosc Sports Med Rehabil. 2022;4:e1979-e1983 In prior head-to-head comparison studies, a primary biceps tenodesis delivered better long-term outcomes, an easier recovery, higher patient satisfaction, and a higher return to play rate than a primary SLAP repair. The new study confirms those earlier findings in a larger, independent patient population. “Go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Eric J. Strauss, MD “The source of the trouble with a SLAP tear is likely the displacement of the superior labrum by the long head of the biceps,” says study coauthor and orthopedic surgeon . “If you take the long head of the biceps out of the equation and move it to a different spot, which is what a tenodesis accomplishes, you can significantly improve a patient’s symptoms because you’re basically taking away the pain generator and a lot of the theoretical reasons why a SLAP repair would fail.” Dr. Strauss maintains that the accumulating data support a phase-out of SLAP repairs. “One of the big take-home messages from our study and all of our research into patients with SLAP tears is take the middleman out of the picture,” he says. “While we did show that you can have a successful result after a failed SLAP repair, go right after the pathology with the correct treatment from the get-go, and the current data supports that the correct treatment is a biceps tenodesis.” Sports Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Laith M. Jazrawi, MD, is a professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the Division of Sports Medicine. He specializes in both orthopedic surgery and sports orthopedic surgery. Eric J. Strauss, MD, is assistant professor in the Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. His research interests include cartilage and ligament repair, meniscus repair, rotatorcuff repair, and shoulder arthritis. CBD Improves Pain and Satisfaction After Rotator Cuff Repair Randomized, controlled cannabidiol trial yields promising results immediately after arthroscopic surgery. Needle Arthroscopy Excels in Carpal Pathology Study finds needle arthroscopy provides excellent access to and visualization of small joints despite a small loss in image quality. Reprogramming Stem Cells to Overcome Bone Loss Study points to a pivotal role for Notch in preserving skeletal integrity and warding off bone loss during aging. Modified Oberlin Treats an Infant’s Erb’s Palsy Early intervention restores elbow flexion, with no contracture and improved shoulder function. Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Study finds Hox gene expression can aid bone healing, suggesting a novel target for tissue engineering therapies. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Extremely minimally invasive endoscopic technique offers to greatly reduce postoperative pain and recovery times. Strengthening Support for Adults with ADHD Lenard A. Adler, MD Adult ADHD Program , is recognized as a national expert in adult psychiatric disorders, specializing in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and related conditions. Currently, he is serving on a committee assembled by the American Professional Society of ADHD and Related Disorders to develop what will be the first U.S. guidelines for adult ADHD. Given the significant underdiagnosis of ADHD in adults, he says awareness is key to ensuring patients receive effective treatment to improve symptoms, emotional stability, and overall functioning. Although they are often overlooked, treatments ranging from pharmacological to behavioral and psychosocial interventions can ameliorate symptoms. Here, Dr. Adler discusses his framework for recognizing and treating ADHD in adults, tools his team has helped develop to support international screening, and how clinical trials underway at NYU Langone are addressing gaps in treatment. The Impact of Underdiagnosis When ADHD goes unaddressed in adults, what impact does that have on a patient’s overall health and wellbeing? Dr. Adler: Underdiagnosis is a critical issue, leaving those affected at risk of experiencing ongoing difficulties. Surprisingly, ADHD is the second most common neuropsychiatric disorder, affecting 8 to 9 million adults across the country. Only about 11 percent of adults with ADHD are currently diagnosed or treated. Over the years, countless studies have established links between untreated adult ADHD and adverse life outcomes, including poor academic performance, lower income, and a higher probability of being divorced or separated. It has also been strongly linked to delinquency and substance use disorders. “ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions. Adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified.” What’s more, ADHD is a risk factor for comorbid psychiatric conditions, such as bipolar disorder, personality disorders, major depressive disorder, and anxiety disorders. Notably, adults will often seek help for the comorbid condition first, before the ADHD is identified. Screening and Assessment Tools What are the common symptoms of ADHD in adults, and how can screening help identify at-risk individuals? The most common symptoms are hyperactivity, inattention, easy distraction, trouble listening, and impulsiveness. These usually lead to behavioral, emotional, and vocational problems and co-present with another psychiatric disorder. “ADHD can run in families. It is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated.” ADHD can also run in families. Thus, it is advisable to ask parents if they themselves have symptoms when their child is being evaluated. We are able to conduct online consultations and assessments through the , a secure and confidential platform that allows our specialists to provide personalized care remotely and at flexible times. Our team has been instrumental in designing a portfolio of assessment tools, including the Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale Symptom Checklist Adult ADHD Self-Report Screener , in partnership with researchers at Harvard University and others. These are useful for general practitioners who want to become more familiar with the symptoms of ADHD in adults, and they are globally leveraged for education, research, and direct care. Appropriate Intervention What treatment options are available for adults with ADHD, and what is your approach to treatment selection? Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process among the psychiatrist, the patient, and their caregivers. Generally speaking, the first step is establishing the diagnosis, then determining whether pharmacological or nonpharmacological treatment will be used, and if both, how they will be sequenced. We consider the age of the patient, the severity of the disorder, and any comorbidities. “Our approach to treatment selection is a shared decision-making process. Patient preference should be the primary consideration.” Most adults