are some steps that can be taken to ensure more women are recognized? The composition of editorial boards and program committees is critical. Some journals do a very good job of gender parity in both their editorial boards and invited submissions. When you’re invited to write your opinion, de facto, you’re a thought leader. Adopting masked reviews is one way—hiding both the name and institution of the author—and some journals have gone to that. Also, as an editorial board member, it is necessary to call it out when you see inequities. As for national forums, women have to continually speak up when the “manels” (all-male panels) are announced. It’s mostly about raising awareness, not accepting the rationale we’re handed. Although, it is kind of uncomfortable to always be the one to say we need to improve. Equipping Trainees and Young Faculty Dr. Prescott, in your role training the next generation of ophthalmologists, how can we go about equipping women with skills that will help them succeed? Dr. Prescott: Women now represent more than 50 percent of medical school students and 40 percent of ophthalmology residents. Currently at NYU Langone, more than 50 percent of the residents are female. The question we have to ask ourselves is “Where do women who start out on the academic track and are headed towards the leadership track start dropping off?” Between assistant and associate professor is where we see the biggest drop. Something happens that derails many of our female colleagues. When women decide to start a family, if they don’t see a pathway to make that happen, they may go to part time while they’re raising young children. If you do that early in your career, you never really catch up in the publishing and presenting arena. If you don’t accept an invitation to speak when you are invited, eventually people are going to stop asking you to speak. Probably the most important thing we can do is to be role models and mentors to young women—to let them know what’s possible by showing them they can take great care of patients, teach, do research, present at meetings and have a family. In terms of publishing and presenting, we’ve built a formalized research curriculum for all our residents, both male and female. It’s a structured program with a timeline, so residents have time to pursue research and receive help in developing projects so they can determine if this is something they’re interested in. As a group, we discuss journal articles and practice giving presentations. We have visiting speakers come in from the leading academic ophthalmology programs to give our residents additional insights. We ensure that our visiting professorships, including two big name lectures, include women. Networking with other female ophthalmologists is important. The Women in Ophthalmology group has been around for approximately 25 years. In 2019, there were 700 people who attended the meeting. It’s a great place to talk about making the transition to academic leadership positions, balancing work and home, the things we’ve been discussing. It’s been really helpful in raising the consciousness of women in the field. Recruiting Diverse Applicants What about gender breakdowns in academic ophthalmology departments? How do you ensure that you’re recruiting diverse trainees and faculty? It helps to have a woman chair! While there has been an increase in women on academic faculties, the bulk of this increase has been at the assistant professor level. Only about one-quarter of professors are women. Women have lower starting salaries and perform fewer surgeries than men. This goes beyond gender parity—ophthalmology is also behind in recruiting URiM (underrepresented in medicine) residents. Some medical trainees just aren’t exposed to ophthalmology; not all medical schools have ophthalmology programs. And ophthalmology is highly competitive. Out of 500 residency spots last year, only 80 percent of senior medical students from United States medical schools who applied matched. And the number is much lower for other categories of applicants. The American Academy of Opthalmology and Association of University Professors of Opthalmology offer minority mentoring programs to help people get into the field. And the Rabb-Venerable Society supports medical students, residents, and fellows in ophthalmology who are from URiM groups. We now hold 20 percent of our residency interview spots for URiM candidates. We have a program where minority high school students come in and shadow department faculty. The students rotate through different specialties, and get help with the college application process. Programs like this expose students to the possibility of a career in medicine—something they may not have thought about otherwise. While there is definitely more awareness, there is still unconscious bias. We all need to pay attention to parity when we invite speakers, give awards, generate research collaborations, write job offers, and appoint committee members. Those of us in leadership positions need to model diversity. Implementing these things is how we’re going to see the downstream effects. Working with medical students, residents and fellows, I am continually reminded that each we all have different strengths and weaknesses. The more diverse our specialty is, the more we can all learn from each other, and the better we can care for our patients. Anemia of ‘Unknown Origin’ Revealed to Be Caused by Large Hiatal Hernia Cameron Lesions: Often Overlooked While large hiatal hernias are well known to cause heartburn, vomiting and regurgitation, their role in causing iron deficiency anemia is easily overlooked. One 68-year-old male went years receiving treatment for his anemia of “unknown origin” with regular iron infusions and blood transfusions. It wasn’t untill he sought care for debilitating symptoms of acid reflux and vomiting from , that the cause of both his gastrointestinal issues and anemia was revealed. After detecting a large hiatal hernia, Dr. Gross made the connection that not only was the hernia affecting the patient’s ability to keep food down, but Cameron lesions, or gastric ulcers that result from the recurrent sliding of the stomach across the opening of the diaphragm, were causing chronic blood loss. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion,” Dr. Gross explains. “When I did the endoscopy, I saw this irritation or break in the lining where part of the hernia was coming through the diaphragm, indicative of a Cameron erosion.” , then performed a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair, which resolved both the patient’s anemia and gastrointestinal issues. “Every patient that we see is evaluated in a multidisciplinary fashion,” Dr. Damani says. “Having Dr. Gross as the advanced endoscopy specialist who studied the anemia further, having the patient’s hematologist within our system, and our expertise in diagnosing and managing paraesophageal hernias really helped steer the care for this patient in the right direction.” Assessing the Cause of Anemia, Vomiting, Retching Coronal view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. A 68-year-old male presented with a history of anemia as well as complaints of acid reflux, vomiting, retching, and difficulty keeping food down. Multiple tests completed prior to the patient arriving revealed no obvious reason for the chronic blood loss. The patient was receiving regular iron infusions and blood transfusions to treat the anemia. Detection of Large Hiatal Hernia Axial view of CT scan showing large intrathoracic stomach. Upon referral for management of worsening symptoms, gastroenterologist Seth A. Gross, MD, detected a large hiatal hernia via endoscopy, which was subsequently confirmed on a CT scan. Cameron Lesions and Iron Deficiency Anemia Before paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Dr. Gross suspected that, in addition to causing the symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching, Cameron lesions associated with the hiatal hernia were causing iron deficiency anemia. The patient was then referred to surgeon Tanuja Damani, MD, and underwent a minimally invasive robotic paraesophageal hernia repair. After paraesophageal hernia repair via minimally invasive robotic surgery. Mesh reinforcement of the diaphragm was completed during the repair to reduce the risk of hernia recurrence. In total, the procedure lasted 2.5 hours, and the patient was discharged within 48 hours. Following surgery, the patient’s hemoglobin levels—which reached a low of 5.4 g/dl pre-surgery—returned to normal (>15 g/dl), and his symptoms of acid reflux, vomiting, and retching completely resolved. New Strategies to Increase Colon Cancer Screening Rates Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Colon cancer screening remains a persistent challenge for gastroenterologists and primary care physicians alike. As expanded guidelines and technologies widen the pool of screen-eligible adults, fewer barriers remain, says , director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology at NYU Langone Health. She shares her perspective on colon cancer screening in the U.S. and ways to improve adherence. Screening Challenges Colon cancer screening is a proven strategy to reduce associated deaths. Why aren’t screening levels higher? Dr. Shaukat: It’s a question we constantly ask. Although screening rates have increased over the past 15-20 years, as a nation we’re still at only about 60 percent adherence in eligible adults. Ideally, we’d be at 100 percent, or 80 percent at minimum as recommended by the National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable There are many known racial and ethnic disparities to screening in certain populations, due to lack of healthcare access in general. The pandemic presented another setback, with delays in routine and elective care. In addition, the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) and other recommending organizations recently updated their screening guidelines, lowering the age for initial screening from 50 to 45 in individuals at average risk for colon cancer. For individuals with a family history of colorectal cancer, screening will likely be initiated at age 40. So we’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients “We’re still playing catch-up after COVID-19 and now we have 21 million additional, screen-eligible patients Beyond Colonoscopy What are some emerging alternatives to colonoscopy for screening, and how are they beneficial? Colonoscopy has a proven track record in catching cancer at its earliest stage. But at the population level we don’t have the resources, infrastructure, or social supports to reach every eligible patient with colonoscopy. One alternative is fecal immunochemical testing, a stool-based screening test with a high degree of sensitivity and specificity. This approach can be completed at home, so it removes the barrier of meeting with a primary care physician, then a specialist to schedule a colonoscopy. There is also the colon capsule, a pill that contains a small camera able to capture 32 image frames per second as it passes through the colon. The images are uploaded to a transmitter on a patient-worn belt, then read by the gastroenterologist who is looking for polyps that would indicate for colonoscopy. That test is expected to be available for home use in the near future. Additionally, I am principal investigator of a large examining the efficacy of a blood-based test in identifying biomarkers of colon cancer such as cell-free DNA. The intent is to combine this test with artificial intelligence to pinpoint which patients should go on to get a colonoscopy, versus lower-risk patients who can repeat the test in a year or two. This could change the landscape of screening if it’s incorporated in routine primary care labs. From a population health standpoint, what is needed to bring these new screening options to patients? One of my research initiatives is in partnership with our community-based Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, which over several decades have become one of the nation’s largest networks of Federally Qualified Health Centers. There, we have a centralized opportunity to expand screening into the community, by working with center leaders to review their colorectal cancer screening programs and determine how case management can be enhanced. The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations. The takeaway should be that any colon cancer screening is better than none at all. “The key message for all screening-age patients and their physicians is that colonoscopy is not for everyone. There are other current and emerging options to effectively reach average-risk populations.” A Look Forward Will these new screening technologies and broader eligibility guidelines be enough to overcome our significant disparities in access and utilization, or is more action needed? I would like to see us organize screening programs to systematically identify and complete the screening cascade not just for individuals our own providers care for, but for the population in New York City at large. This will likely require collaborative efforts in conjunction with other healthcare systems and the state health department. In the future, we will likely have an expanded menu of screening test options, and healthcare systems will need to decide what to offer. The diagnostic accuracy and performance characteristics of the individual tests will dictate adoption. For most average-risk individuals—particularly those who’ve had a normal colonoscopy—a blood-, stool-, or capsule-based test may be the right balance of benefit and risk, providing information to inform clinicians’ use of colonoscopy if polyps need to be removed or other lesions are found. This will bring more individuals to colonoscopy who truly need it. An Expanding Place for Neuro-Ophthalmology The editor of the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology explains how vision-based testing is changing neurologic research. Laura Balcer, MD , is a professor of neurology, ophthalmology, and population health, and vice chair of the Department of Neurology . An internationally renowned researcher and author of more than 350 publications, Dr. Balcer is editor-in-chief of the . Here, Dr. Balcer discusses her perspectives on advancements in the field and where neuro-ophthalmology is heading. You’ve been appointed editor-in-chief of the . From the research the journal is publishing and the work you and your colleagues are doing at NYU Langone Health, what is on the forefront for the field? Dr. Balcer: There is very exciting work happening in Alzheimer’s and other neurodegenerative diseases. Expanded applications of optical coherence tomography (OCT) and other vision-based diagnostic tools are providing new insights into the effects of these disorders on the eye and visual pathway. Some of the types of tests we are investigating, such as rapid picture-naming, or mobile universal lexicon evaluation system (MULES) and rapid number-naming, or staggered uneven number (SUN), have been around for over 80 years, and can potentially help to predict disease progression. Here at NYU Langone, we are leading collaborative sub-studies of clinical trials that will use OCT, as well as MULES and SUN, to identify markers for Alzheimer’s . Additionally, we have expanded the applications of OCT and of low-contrast letter acuity (eye charts with gray letters on a white background) to the evaluation of other conditions, such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and suspected or concussion in athletes. There is much research being done on COVID-19 and its impact on the central nervous system . Researchers have been evaluating the accelerated use of tele-neuro-ophthalmology over the last two years and how it will impact future neurology and ophthalmology practice. OCT as a Diagnostic Tool in MS You have made significant breakthroughs in the study and early treatment of MS. How is OCT being used as a tool for diagnosing this neurological disorder? We think physical changes in the visual system may be structural markers for neurological disease. Because OCT is non-invasive and relatively easy to use, we can now image structures in the eye that reflect what is going on in the rest of the visual system and potentially in the brain overall. OCT captures images and quantitative thicknesses in the optic nerve head, the retinal nerve fiber layer (axons), and cellular layers of the macula. In MS, the higher resolution of OCT scans may be better able to detect both asymptomatic and symptomatic optic nerve lesions. The optic nerve, despite many patients having inflammation of this structure as a first clinical event in MS, is not yet included as a lesion site in the diagnostic criteria for MS. We are working to change that, with worldwide collaborations and investigations with ocular imaging teams right here at NYU Langone that pioneered OCT. In 2018, we conducted a study that established a threshold for inter-eye differences in degrees of retinal nerve fiber layer and macular thinning that signals a patient has had acute optic neuritis. These inter-eye difference thresholds measured by OCT will be complementary to magnetic resonance imaging in identifying optic nerve lesions. This investigation led to an international, multisite study of 1,530 patients with MS that confirmed the inter-eye difference thresholds for the identification of an optic nerve lesion within a larger and more diverse study cohort. As part of our ongoing MS research, we recently published a study using the world’s largest MS database which demonstrates that early treatment with MS therapies is associated with lower risk of conversion to MS and improved neurological/visual function in patients with optic neuritis. Vision Testing and Cognitive Decline In another emerging research area, what can OCT tell us about CTE and concussion? Are there other new diagnostic tools? In individuals with a history of repetitive head traumas, such as contact sport athletes, the goal is to determine whether the visual pathway can serve as a potential living biomarker for CTE or cognitive decline among those who have a history of contact sports exposure. NYU Langone is one of four study sites for an NIH-funded investigation led by researchers at Boston University to develop criteria for traumatic encephalopathy syndrome—a potential phenotype in living persons at risk for CTE. In a partnership with NYU Langone’s , we are involved in ongoing research on the use of the MULES and SUN tests. These tests, under investigation as research paper/pencil or as part of a research tablet application, were developed at NYU Langone and have shown worse time scores among athletes with concussion on the sideline in the setting of more chronic concussion, and in patients with MS, mild cognitive impairment due to Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, and long-haul symptoms of COVID-19. The MULES, SUN and other rapid automatized naming tasks likely require different brain pathways and networks for visual processing, visual memory, language, and eye movements. Broadening the Field’s Impact Any closing thoughts as you enter this next chapter in your career? We are excited to be neuro-ophthalmologists, since we have learned that vision is a potential avenue to measuring disease and outcomes in areas with both an established repertoire of clinical trials and treatment, and for those fields that are just starting to have effective therapies. The teams at NYU Langone are incredibly collaborative and supportive. We are making tremendous progress in the evaluation and treatment of our patients through the capacity to share knowledge and advancements within and beyond our field. We are grateful to our very knowledgeable and innovative colleagues in neuroradiology, ophthalmology, neuropathology and other specialties. We are also delighted to continue to mentor through our Patient-Oriented Research Curriculum for residents, and to teach trainees about the fundamentals of clinical research. And of course, the impact of the pandemic on neurological training has been an important opportunity to teach our colleagues in neurology how to pivot under circumstances of adversity. Presenters at the 2023 AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health neurologists joined international colleagues in Boston, April 22–27. Scar Dancing Syndrome: The Seven Year Twitch A patient diagnosed with the rare movement disorder receives long-awaited and sustained relief with botulinum toxin. Identifying Markers of Parkinson’s Disease Progression Landmark Parkinson’s Progression Markers Initiative (PPMI) expands to include thousands more participants. Enzyme Discovery Unlocks Potential New Treatments for Cancer & Neurodevelopmental Disease By asking the deceptively simple question of how human cells use oxygen, NYU Langone Health researchers have discovered a previously unknown metabolite and the enzyme that makes it. Tracing that enzymatic pathway has led to an investigation of potential cures for a rare but deadly neurodevelopmental disorder and a new target for hard-to-treat malignancies like pancreatic and brain cancers. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort,” says radiation oncologist Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD . “That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” Discovery of a New Metabolic Pathway Dr. Pacold began studying the role of oxygen in cancer cells because they’re easy to grow and manipulate and because low oxygen levels can drive cancer progression. Some pancreatic and brain cancers not only survive but actually thrive in hypoxic conditions, he notes. “We did not go into this research planning to study a childhood neurodevelopmental disease or find a potential treatment for cancer of any sort. That emerged when we started looking into it, but the goal was always very simple: find something fundamental to biology.” To better understand the cellular role of oxygen, Robert Banh, PhD , a former postdoctoral researcher in Dr. Pacold’s lab and now an assistant professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology, used the isotope oxygen-18 to track how the element gets incorporated into molecules. Although some of the oxygen-labeled molecules were expected, roughly one-fourth were previously unknown in mammalian cells. One metabolite in particular, abbreviated 4-HMA, incorporated more of the labeled oxygen than any other molecule in the cell. The lab then identified the enzyme that makes it, called HPDL. Dr. Banh discovered that the oxygen-using enzyme is a critical catalyst for a previously undescribed metabolic pathway in mammals, which starts with the production of 4-HMA and ends with the synthesis of part of the powerful antioxidant (and popular supplement) coenzyme Q10. An Unexpected Disease Application At the same time, other research groups were puzzling over the first reports of pediatric patients carrying variants in the gene encoding the HPDL enzyme. These variants have been closely associated with a rare, progressive neurodevelopmental disorder marked by seizures, leg stiffness, rigid and abnormal body movements, and profound neurodevelopmental delay. To study the disease, two research groups created mice strains lacking the HPDL enzyme and observed similar neurodevelopmental abnormalities. Dr. Pacold’s team is now investigating if coenzyme Q10 can make up for missing or deficient HPDL and help treat this disorder. If the intervention proves effective in mice, Dr. Pacold hopes to collaborate with clinicians to evaluate whether a coenzyme Q10–based therapy can reduce symptoms in children with the disease. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off.” “Even if we’re able to only treat some of these patients with this nasty neurodevelopmental disease, I’d be very happy,” he says. Because doctors haven’t known to look for it until recently, he adds, the disease could be more prevalent than anyone has suspected. A Quest to Turn Off Cancer While one part of the research group is focusing on the neurodevelopmental disease application, another part is investigating how to turn off the HPDL enzyme. “When you delete the gene for HPDL, at least in a subset of pancreas cancers, the cancers basically fail to take off,” Dr. Pacold says. Although urging caution about whether the benefits seen in laboratory models of cancer could be replicated in humans, an initial screen suggests that some compounds can indeed inhibit the enzyme—potentially opening the door to a cancer treatment as well. “We all, I think, have this dream of being able to do something that moves the needle for patients,” Dr. Pacold says. “But we didn’t go into this research deliberately setting out to do this.” By understanding a biological process at a more fundamental level, though, the added knowledge of basic mechanisms could have far more implications for treating diseases than anyone imagined. “There may be a lot more to this story,” he says. Dr. Pacold has equity with Raze Therapeutics, has received grant funding from Novocure, and is a consultant for Leal Therapeutics and Promedigen. Michael E. Pacold, MD, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Radiation Oncology and director of basic science research for the department. New Strategies to Personalize IBD Treatment As co-director of the , is working to shed light on the predictors of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) progression using clinical and translational biomarkers, in order to personalize the care given to IBD patients. What drives the well-documented variation in quality of care for patients with IBD, including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis? Dr. Hudesman: IBD impacts the gastrointestinal tract along with many other parts of the body including the joints and skin. Many people with IBD can have associated malnutrition, chronic pain, fatigue, and poor sleep quality that can negatively impact their quality of life. Yet, it is rare to receive the level of multidisciplinary care we can offer in a center like ours, which includes an IBD specialist, a nutritionist, and a psychologist; plus a rheumatologist and a dermatologist to manage extraintestinal symptoms; nurses and mid-level providers to help manage medications; and even a pharmacy team to navigate insurance considerations. Psychological care is critical. Anxiety and depression are common co-morbidities. A solo GI practice doesn’t necessarily have a psychologist, and many mental health providers don’t accept insurance. While our center provides behavioral therapy and treatment as part of the multidisciplinary model, this is not widely available. “By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes.” How does your care model benefit hospitalized patients, in particular? Many patients with IBD do need to be admitted to the hospital—which can impact short- and long-term outcomes. The idea behind our own work in developing a dedicated, multidisciplinary inpatient IBD service is that including GI specialists, a colorectal surgeon, ostomy nurse, and an entire team specializing in IBD care can help improve outcomes for hospitalized patients. We have studied the impact of a dedicated inpatient IBD service. In one recent study, we assessed the impact of our dedicated IBD service on important quality measures such as Clostridiodes difficile stool testing, VTE [venous thromboembolism] prophylaxis administration, and opiate avoidance. In addition to finding statistically significant improvements in the inpatient measures, we identified improvements in post-discharge rates of ED visits and hospital readmissions. Forecasting Risk of Complications What other research is the center leading toward the goal of preventing, or at least reducing, hospitalizations? We’re working to stratify patients by risk factors and symptoms to predict their clinical course. Around a third of hospitalized patients with IBD require salvage therapy or surgery, and about 40 percent experience a longer length of stay. But we don’t have a method to predict whether admitted patients will experience adverse outcomes. We recently published a scoring index that can be used to assess which patients who present in the ED are at risk for complications. The hope is that this prognostic information can guide management of hospitalized patients with IBD. Treatment Beyond the GI Tract The center is also researching extraintestinal manifestations of IBD. What are those manifestations, and how does their treatment support care? Manifestations beyond the GI tract, which impact up to half of patients, can happen virtually anywhere—the joints, skin, eyes, liver, biliary tract, and lungs. Joint manifestations are most common, especially in Crohn’s disease, and tend to go undiagnosed until they present more severe symptoms such as back pain and joint damage. Certain treatment options have more systemic benefits, making them more efficacious if we can identify those patients who have both intestinal and extraintestinal symptoms. For example, we recently completed a study indicating that magnetic resonance enterography used to assess patients with Crohn’s disease can allow clinicians to evaluate for sacroiliitis —and potentially adapt treatment before this manifestation causes more significant problems. What promising future treatments are you investigating for IBD? We are working to further personalize treatment based on disease phenotype. For example, we’ve examined the characteristics of patients with IBD and concurrent psoriasis (PsO) or psoriatic arthritis (PsA)—all conditions characterized by dysregulation of the immune system. Evidence suggests that these conditions share a common genetic pathway, and that the presence of one increases the risk of developing another. Our study revealed that patients with IBD alone may have a less severe disease phenotype than those with IBD and PsO/PsA overlap, and that there may be an underlying genetic component behind that overlap. We expect such insights to help us customize treatment. By more fully understanding a patient’s IBD involvement, we can better engage specialists in leading those patients toward optimal outcomes. Calculator Predicts Risk of Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer A novel prediction model has the potential to identify individuals at differential relative and absolute risk for early-onset colorectal cancer (CRC), according to a Journal of the National Cancer Institute The model incorporates an environmental risk score (ERS), including 16 lifestyle and environmental factors, and a polygenic risk score (PRS) of 141 common variants. The combined score, a number between 0 and 1, may contribute towards identifying high-risk populations that may benefit from personalized preventive interventions for early-onset CRC. “Concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted.” “As screening guidelines lower the recommended age of screening initiation for CRC, concerns including the burden on screening capacity and costs support that an individualized approach is increasingly warranted,” says study co-senior investigator , a professor of population health and environmental medicine. Constructing the Model The researchers used data from 13 population-based studies, which included 3,486 early-onset and 3,890 control cases under the age of 50 years, to construct the risk prediction models. Relative and absolute risks for early-onset CRC were evaluated according to the ERS and PRS. The team found that increasing values of ERS and PRS were associated with increasing relative risks for early-onset CRC (odds ratios, 1.14 and 1.59, respectively; area under the curve, 0.631). Based on absolute risks, 26 excess cases per 10,000 men and 21 per 10,000 women would be expected among those scoring at the 90th percentile for both risk scores. Leveraging the Insights “This study is the first to our knowledge to implement a risk score integrating lifestyle, environmental, and genetic factors in early-onset CRC, which complements similar efforts for cohorts consisting predominantly of late-onset disease,” Dr. Hayes says. While these findings are encouraging, Dr. Hayes cautions that his team’s tool is not yet ready for clinical use. Further testing is needed in larger trials to refine the model, and to demonstrate how the scoring system could be applied in clinical settings. “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people.” “Our ultimate goal is to have a predictive test for all people to gauge when they, based on their own genetic and personal health factors, need to start routine screening for colorectal cancer.” Other researchers involved in the study are lead investigator Alexei Archambault at Regeneron Pharmaceuticals and NYU Langone co-investigators Anne Zeliniuch-Jacquotte, MD Funding support for the scoring study was provided by National Institutes of Health grants R03CA21577502, U01CA164930, R01CA201407, P30CA016087, P30CA015704, P20CA252728, and T32HS026120. Population Health, Environmental Medicine Richard B. Hayes, DDS, MPH, PhD, is a professor of population health and environmental medicine. His research focuses on cancer epidemiology, including the development of predictive algorithms for colorectal cancer screening. Urging Awareness of Paraneoplastic Syndromes Maria D. Guillermo Prieto Eibl, MD , an expert in neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology, specializes in the treatment of paraneoplastic syndromes, immune responses to cancer that impact the nervous system. While serious, treatments are available, and because symptoms can develop two to three years before the underlying malignancy manifests, some cases provide an opportunity for early detection though periodic cancer screening. Given their varied presentations, awareness is key to ensuring patients receive early treatment and prevent long-term disability from the attack on the nervous system. Here, Dr. Prieto, director of the neuro-oncology program at NYU Langone’s , discusses her framework for recognizing and treating these syndromes. She also shares her vision for applying neuroimmuno-oncology to advance treatments for challenging brain and spine tumors. No Textbook Case Reflecting on the many patients you have treated with paraneoplastic syndromes, what are the most common clinical features? Dr. Prieto: There’s certainly no textbook case. Patients present with a wide variety of symptoms including neuropsychiatric symptoms, seizures, rapid cognitive decline, and neuropathies. Autonomic dysfunction, such as orthostatic hypotension and gastric motility symptoms, are also common. Oftentimes symptoms are blamed on medications or age. Timely Intervention Is Critical What steps do you take for diagnosis and treatment when you suspect a patient has paraneoplastic syndrome? Antibody panels for blood and cerebrospinal fluid are promptly ordered to provide information on the prognosis and guide the potential best treatment. These tests can take up to two to three weeks to come back. If we wait for results, patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. Therefore, we treat upfront to prevent further damage. In most cases, time is of the essence. “Patients can deteriorate rather quickly, and the damage to the nervous system can be irreversible. In most cases, time is of the essence.” First, we give high-dose steroids. If steroids don’t work, then plasma exchange is performed to remove the antibodies. If the patient doesn’t respond to plasma exchange, intravenous immunoglobulin can be given. We escalate the treatment with other medications if the patient keeps deteriorating. Following a good response, maintenance treatment with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies is provided to prevent the creation of new antibodies. Sometimes an underlying cancer—the root of the problem—is found at the time of initial presentation. While the person is treated for the paraneoplastic condition, treating the malignancy results in halting the progression of the neurological decline. Treat and Screen For patients with no detectable cancer, for whom paraneoplastic syndrome is the first sign of possible malignancy, what is your approach to treatment? If cancer is not detected upon initial presentation, we keep the patient on maintenance immunotherapy for about two years. This keeps the patient stable while we continue searching for the source. “A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system.” Young patients that have antibodies typically seen with paraneoplastic syndromes are less likely to have an underlying malignancy. Nevertheless, we still monitor closely. For example, in NMDA receptor antibody encephalitis, often linked with a benign ovarian teratoma, surgical resection of the tumor halts symptom progression and initiates a recovery process, most of the time with good success. Healing from neurological paraneoplastic syndromes can take months to years. Patience and early rehabilitation are fundamental. Complications of Immunotherapy You also see referrals for complications of immunotherapy that manifest as paraneoplastic syndrome or new onset of autoimmune disease but are not necessarily driven by cancer. Can you tell us about these cases? Certain cancer-directed immunotherapies, like checkpoint inhibitors, can trigger the production of antibodies that can cause a variety of autoimmune conditions. My colleagues often refer patients to my clinic who present with new neurological symptoms that lack a clear explanation, and we perform a meticulous evaluation to determine the optimal treatment. Checkpoint inhibitor autoimmune syndromes tend to have a great response to steroids, with the challenge that if steroids are required for a prolonged period, the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy can be reduced. Frequent communication among care teams is crucial for proper treatment planning. Neuroimmuno-Oncology: The Leading Edge What other conditions are you focusing on in the areas of neuroimmunology and neuro-oncology? A top goal for our program is to improve outcomes for patients with cancer that affect the central nervous system. While current cancer-directed immunotherapies have proven to successfully treat many cancers,