to achieve my goals. A special thank you to Paul E. Oberstein, MD, Shantal Ginsberg, RN, Zefie Kanos, NP, Kent P. Friedman, MD, and Irvine Lee for my liver cancer treatment; Jennifer Ann Stein, MD, and Maressa C. Criscito, MD, for my skin cancer treatment; Kenneth Vera, MD, my primary care physician; and Gregory M. Katz, MD, for my heart health. Next year, 2025, my goal is to compete in the National Senior Games in powerlifting, as well as the pole vault, long jump, and high jump. My philosophy is to just strengthen my core as much as possible and build my muscles. I will then concentrate on the jumping techniques as I continue to grow the jumping muscles. I think it is important to continuously challenge yourself to keep your interest in exercising at a high level. Set tough goals. In the meantime, I’ll remain close to NYU Langone, getting tests done when needed and keeping my care team in my thoughts as I conquer more fitness challenges and try to inspire more people. Thanks to NYU Langone, I had a wake-up call and the support I needed to transform my life. I learned that when you have a chance to get healthy, you can’t give up. You just have to do it. Just move! We loved understanding what was important to Paul and tailoring his treatment as much as possible to accommodate him achieving his goals . . . On our team, we particularly love connecting with people and knowing things about their personal lives that will guide them accomplishing their goals with therapy. Instead of thinking about how to treat the cancer, we ask, ‘How do we treat the person? Paul E. Oberstein, MD Service Chief, Gastrointestinal Medical Oncology Program Celebrate the FACES Community Date Location FACES (Finding A Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center are incredibly grateful for the tremendous generosity displayed for FACES Gala 2024. The evening was a testament to the resilience and unity of the FACES community, including individuals with epilepsy, their families and friends, volunteers, physicians, and researchers. The remarkable success of the gala is a testament to the collective efforts of attendees, donors, sponsors, auction participants, and volunteers, numbering over 700 strong. Together, we raised an impressive $5.5 million! These funds will directly benefit innovative research, enhance patient care, and bolster vital programs that ease the challenges faced by epilepsy patients and their families. They will support initiatives such as the Parent Network, FACES Apartments, Dr. Blanca Vazquez Summer Camp Scholarship, and FACES College Scholarship, along with offering annual free events like Game Day, the Peace of Mind Lecture series, and the Epilepsy Conference. Our sincerest gratitude goes to the whole FACES community for their unwavering commitment in advancing our shared mission. Gala Chairs Danielle and Tom Walker Honorees Daniel Friedman, MD Luis Valero Special Guest Busy Philipps Special Video Appearance Harrison Ford Auction Chairs Andrea and Anthony Melchiorre Get In Touch: 646-558-0900 facesgala@nyulangone.org Couldn't make it? Give to FACES Athletic Achievement Fuels Medical Discovery D10 Training Camp is an evolution of the wildly popular and impactful Wall Street Decathlon. D10 Training Camp 2024 brings together an invite-only audience of investors, operators, and policymakers. These “teams of rivals” come together for spirited, athletic competition and debate, catalyzed by a collective goal to accelerate clinical trials at NYU Langone Health’s Perlmutter Cancer Center that could transform the way cancer is treated. D10 Training Camp’s curated community uses its collective resources to support researchers on the front lines of new cancer therapy innovations. Although its name and format have evolved, D10’s mission remains the same; to fund early stage clinical trials with lifesaving potential. One hundred percent of funds raised support investigator-initiated trials (IITs) for cancer therapies. These early-stage studies rely on philanthropic funding to bring new and exciting ideas to the testing phase. D10 Training Camp’s participants make a real impact by providing researchers with critical resources to take these potentially revolutionary treatments from the lab to patients. communitygiving@nyulangone.org. Support early stage clinical trials Transforming health on Long Island View the event photo gallery The Beginning of a New Era for NYU Langone on Long Island On June 3, our community rallied together to support NYU Langone’s world-class care on Long Island and honor Steven M. Kobren, MD, with the creation of the Steven M. Kobren, MD Endowed Fellowship. With one day of golf, friendship, and connection, we were able to lay the foundation of a lasting legacy for NYU Langone and Long Island. The new fellowship will allow us to elevate healthcare for thousands, educate the next generation of leading physicians, and ensure the most innovative treatments in medicine are brought to Long Island. Thank you to all who attended and pledged their support to building a healthier future with us. The most special thank you goes out to Steven M. Kobren, MD, our 2024 honoree , for his service to the people of Long Island and for spearheading NYU Langone’s expansion in the area. Thanks to his accomplishments, we are able to embark on a bold new era of health on Long Island and bringing state-of-the-art care to vast numbers of people. Thank you to the chairs of the event. Your dedication to improving the health of your community is greatly admired, and we appreciate you partnering with all of us in transforming healthcare. Our 2024 Co-Chairs: Michael Scott Cohen, Heidi Horowitz, Richard Horowitz, Shepard T. Poole, Stephen E. Rach II, Michael L. Rafferty, Jay Raubvogel, Nicholas J. Rosato Jr. 646-754-4810 LIGolf@nyulangone.org Celebrating NYU Grossman School of Medicine Alumni View Event Gallery Thank You for Making Reunion Weekend So Special Thank you for joining the extraordinary alumni of NYU Grossman School of Medicine at the 2023-2024 Alumni Reunion. We paid special tribute to classes ending in 3s, 4s, 8s, and 9s, and congratulated the 50th anniversary classes of ’73 and ’74 and the 25th anniversary classes of ’98 and ’99. Wayne Holman, MD ’98 was honored as the Solomon A. Berson Alumni Achievement Awardee. David B. Beck, MD ’14, PhD ’12 was honored as the Julia Zelmanovich Young Alumni Awardee. Anthony J. Grieco ’63, who recently announced his plans to retire from his position as associate dean of alumni relations, was also celebrated for his lifetime of service to our school. Thank you to everyone who attended. We greatly appreciate your commitment to your alma mater and the future of medical education! View the official Alumni Reunion program View photos from Alumni Reunion 212-263-5390 alumnireunion@nyulangone.org Support NYU Grossman School of Medicine NYU Langone Department of Urology Keynote Speaker Robert Montgomery, MD, PhD H. Leon Pachter, MD Professor of Surgery, Department of Surgery at NYU Grossman School of MedicineChair, Department of Surgery at NYU Grossman School of MedicineDirector, NYU Langone Transplant Institute Featured Speakers Assistant Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Christopher E. Kelly, MD Clinical Associate Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of Medicine Hossein Sadeghi-Nejad, MD Professor, Department of Urology at NYU Grossman School of MedicineProfessor, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at NYU Grossman School of MedicineDirector, Men’s Health, Urology (212) 404-3757 Megan.Trenery@nyulangone.org Can't attend? Support 2024 Urology FunRaiser FACES invites you to We are immensely grateful for the unwavering support and involvement exhibited at freshFACES 2024! Because of your generosity, we successfully raised $200,000 to directly benefit FACES (Finding A Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. The event, held on Thursday, September 12 at Camp David in Industry City, Brooklyn, brought over 220 guests including individuals with epilepsy, their families, medical professionals, and researchers for an unforgettable evening of hope and community. This year’s freshFACES was a tremendous success and we owe it to the compassion and dedication of everyone who supported – whether by attending, purchasing a sponsorship, making a contribution, participating in the auction, or volunteering. Your involvement will make a profound impact on the lives of many. All proceeds will drive essential FACES programs and epilepsy research, bringing us closer to our shared goal of finding a cure. FACESInfo@NYULangone.org Support 2024 freshFACES Department of Urology’s Annual FunRaiser On September 27, 2023, we celebrated Herbert Lepor, MD, Martin Spatz Chair, Department of Urology, and his 30 years at NYU Langone Health. Guests were treated to an insightful fireside chat with Dr. Lepor and Ken Langone, chair of the Board of Trustees, and got an inside look at advancements in urology from faculty speakers. Our gratitude goes out to all who attended this special event. Your overwhelming support helps the Department of Urology continue to be a relentless innovator and a top educator in the field. Thank you for honoring Dr. Lepor and your commitment to the Department of Urology! Herbert Lepor, MD Professor, Department of Urology Professor, Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Pharmacology Martin Spatz Chair, Department of Urology Chief, Urology LaMont J. Barlow, MD Assistant Professor, Department of Urology Assistant Professor, Department of Pathology Director, Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, Department of Urology Natasha Gupta, MD Research Assistant Professor, Department of Urology Research Assistant Professor, Department of Population Health Philip T. Zhao, MD Chief, Urology Stone Program, Tisch Hospital 212-404-3757 Support 2023 Urology FunRaiser Celebrate the Sala Community In honor of its tenth anniversary, Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care celebrated its decade-long commitment to enhancing care, patient experience, quality, and safety for children and families on November 6. Sala-bration guests heard directly from patient families, frontline healthcare providers, NYU Langone leaders, and Trudy Elbaum Gottesman and Robert W. Gottesman, Sala Institute’s co-founders, on the difference Sala has made in caring for children with complex and chronic illnesses. The night was filled with joy and dancing inspired by the Bobby Gee’s, a rock and roll band led by Bob Gottesman. Over 200 people attended the event and Sala raised over $2.1 million. These funds will directly benefit children who receive care at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone and their families through Sala’s supportive services, resilience programs, partnership programs, and safety and quality initiatives. Thank you to all members of the Sala community for your generosity! Thank you to Sala-bration’s corporate sponsors! FACES Epilepsy Conference 2023 For Patients and Families Apr 30, 2023 8:30 AM - 3:00 PM NYU Langone Health Main Floor, Murphy Auditorium NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic 2023 $343,000 170 golfers Jun 5, 2023 The Violet Ball 2023 Celebrating $2 billion raised since 2019 Nov 1, 2023 The Metropolitan Museum of Art 2023 FACES Gala 600 $5 million Mar 6, 2023 Pier 60 at Chelsea PiersNew York, NY 10011 2022 Alumni Reunion 400+ Nearly $4M Oct 7, 2022 - Oct 8, 2022 NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s 2022 Golf Classic $326,800 revenue 180 Jun 6, 2022 Gastroenterology Fellowship Graduation 2022 Jun 14, 2022 The Water Club500 East 30th StreetNew York, NY 10016 If you are concerned that your child has COVID-19, NYU Langone doctors can provide diagnostic testing, including a rapid antigen test. We offer rapid COVID-19 testing, also known as antigen testing, for symptomatic children at certain NYU Langone pediatric care locations. With this option, your child can be tested quickly in the comfort and safety of a pediatrician’s office. This test is performed by using a nasal swab, and results are generally available within 20 minutes. Symptomatic infants and children of all ages may receive this test. COVID-19 symptoms  in children include fever or chills, cough, congestion or runny nose, loss of taste or smell, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, body aches, fatigue, headache, sore throat, and nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea. If your child is exhibiting any of these symptoms, please contact your child’s pediatrician to determine if an in-office visit for rapid COVID-19 antigen testing is recommended. Because COVID-19 has many of the same symptoms as the , your child’s doctor may also recommend rapid flu testing. NYU Langone offers patients 6 months and older the , including updated boosters. Here are answers to some of your questions about the safety of the vaccine, how it works, and who should get vaccinated and why. Who is eligible for an updated COVID-19 vaccine? The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recommends that everyone age 6 years and older receive an updated COVID-19 vaccine regardless of whether they received the vaccine previously. The updated monovalent vaccines from Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna protect against currently circulating strains of the COVID-19 virus. Children ages 6 months to 5 years of age may need one or two doses to be up to date on their recommended vaccines, depending on the number of doses and the original vaccine they received. The CDC provides information about staying up to date on COVID-19 vaccines and boosters Why do healthy people need to be vaccinated? Even healthy people are at risk of severe COVID-19 infection and can develop serious complications. Although healthy people are less likely to be hospitalized than those with certain underlying medical conditions, they can become severely ill and are as likely to experience long-term health effects after the initial infection. This is known in the medical community as post-acute sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC), or as “long-haul COVID.” When healthy people are vaccinated, they help reduce the spread of COVID-19 by limiting the virus’s opportunity to spread from person to person. Vaccination is also a way that healthy people can protect people who are at high risk for complications from contracting COVID-19. By getting vaccinated, you are protecting yourself, your family, and your community by helping control the spread of the disease. Should children get vaccinated against COVID-19? The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines are approved for use in children and infants as young as 6 months. Compared to other age groups, the rates of severe illness and hospitalization from COVID-19 are lower in people under age 18, but COVID-19 infection at any age can result in hospitalization, inflammatory conditions, and long-term side effects. Clinical trials showed the COVID-19 vaccine to be as effective in children as in adults in reducing infections, and more importantly, preventing the risk of hospitalization. Can pregnant or breastfeeding people get the COVID-19 vaccine? Along with the CDC, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists and the Society for Maternal–Fetal Medicine recommend that all pregnant and breastfeeding people receive the COVID-19 vaccine and booster. Tens of thousands of people have received the vaccine while pregnant. The data show there are no safety risks and that vaccination reduces the risk of severe maternal COVID-19 and preterm delivery. The vaccine also appears to be just as effective for pregnant people as it is for the general population. This is especially important because pregnant individuals are at high risk of severe complications should they become infected with COVID-19. Vaccination before or during pregnancy can also protect your baby after birth , as the mother’s antibodies pass on to the infant while in utero. We recommend that people who are pregnant or breastfeeding talk with their obstetricians about any concerns they have regarding vaccination. Will the COVID-19 vaccine affect fertility? There is no evidence that the COVID-19 vaccine affects fertility in women or men. There is no data to support the belief that the vaccine or the resulting immune reaction has any effect on conception, fetal development, or miscarriage risk. If the spike protein antibody created by the vaccine caused infertility, an infection with COVID-19 should also, and there is no evidence that it does. Talk with your doctor about any concerns you have about the vaccine and future family planning. How can I be sure the vaccine is safe? More than 80 percent of all Americans have already received the COVID-19 vaccine, with more than 56 million people receiving at least one bivalent booster dose. NYU Langone has been involved in testing COVID-19 vaccines through clinical trials at our , which is 1 of 10 Vaccine and Treatment Evaluation Units in the United States funded by the National Institutes of Health. (The Vaccine Center is a research center and is not involved in giving vaccines to the general public.) The FDA reviewed data from those extensive clinical trials, which showed that the vaccine is safe and that its benefits outweigh its known or potential risks. Three vaccines—Pfizer–BioNTech, Moderna, and Johnson & Johnson/Janssen—have received Emergency Use Authorization from the FDA, which is a special approval during a public health emergency that is based on strong evidence of safety. The Pfizer–BioNTech vaccine has been granted full FDA approval for use in people age 12 and older. The FDA granted full approval for the Moderna vaccine in people age 18 and older. Full approval is based on updated data from the initial clinical trials, including research into long-term side effects. The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines for use in children continue to be distributed under Emergency Use Authorization. Vaccines work by priming the body’s immune system to fight the virus. Vaccine reactions, such as a sore arm, headache, fatigue, or nausea, are normal and are signs that the body is responding to the vaccine. We encourage you to talk with your doctor about any questions or concerns you have about the vaccine, so you can make an informed decision. If vaccinated people can still get COVID-19, does that mean that the vaccines are ineffective? COVID-19 infections do occur in fully vaccinated people. However, fully vaccinated people with infections tend to experience much milder symptoms or no symptoms at all, and the vaccines continue to provide strong protection against severe disease that can lead to hospitalization and death. Hospitalization and death rates for fully vaccinated people remain exceedingly low. Can I get COVID-19 from the vaccine? No, you cannot get COVID-19 from any of the COVID-19 vaccines because they do not contain elements capable of making you sick. There are two types of COVID-19 vaccines currently available: messenger RNA (mRNA) and viral vector vaccines. The Pfizer–BioNTech and Moderna vaccines use mRNA to send a message to the cells on how to make a certain harmless spike protein that is unique to the virus that causes COVID-19. With those vaccines, your cells use the mRNA information to create a unique spike protein that is found on the surface of the coronavirus. The protein cannot make you sick on its own. But it plays an important role: it introduces your immune system to a protein that it has never seen before, and gives it the opportunity to create antibodies against it. This way, if your body is ever confronted by the actual coronavirus, your immune system already knows which antibodies it needs to kill the virus and protect you from illness. Are there any reasons a person should not get vaccinated? There are no diagnoses or conditions that prohibit a person from being vaccinated, but certain people should consult with their doctor before getting the vaccine. This includes the following groups: people with a history of a severe allergic reaction to a vaccine people who have a condition that affects their immune system people who are getting radiation therapy or chemotherapy If you are in any of these groups, talk with your doctor before making a vaccination appointment. Meet Renaissance man Jeffrey Gurian, DDS. He’s worked with every standup comic you know. He’s also helping the pandemic’s front lines after a hospital stay from COVID-19 double pneumonia. How are you feeling? It’s seven weeks, and I’m just feeling back to myself. That’s how hard it hit me. Much worse than my heart attack—I had what’s known as a widow maker, had a stent put in—I was back on stage in five days. This feels like I was beaten over every part of my body. What happened? I started to have full body pains, every place you could image. Nausea, from morning to night, no matter what I took. At first, I wasn’t sure if I had fever or not because, foolishly, I had what must have been one of the first thermometers ever invented. Something my great-grandmother might have used in Russia. But at one point, my chills were so bad I couldn’t hold a glass. My doctor told me I should be in the hospital. Jeffrey Gurian, comedian/comedy writer, radio personality, author, producer, and journalist I called 911. Two amazing ambulance workers—one of them was so kind, he took my hand and said: “Don’t worry, you’re going to be OK.” I remember them apologizing to me for the bumpy ride. Next thing I know I’m in the ER. How was your experience at NYU Langone? I must emphasize that every single person there was so kind. The cleaning people, transport, nurses, doctors…everybody—everybody that came into the room had something to do with me getting better. They kept bringing me ice packs, as many as I asked for, to bring down my fever—when it finally hit 98.6, it brought tears to my eyes. I couldn’t believe it. That happened to me several times while I was there. I teared up a lot because the concern from the staff was overwhelming. There were nurses that held my hand that told me I’d be OK, and just to hang in there. They were working very hard to get me better. Why did you make your gift to support COVID-19 care and research? Because I believe in gratitude. Be grateful no matter what’s going on—those people are going out of their way, they’re so brave. To show up every day knowing that you could catch this, that’s an amazing thing. My gratitude is endless. Some people haven’t been feeling seriously ill. Why should they consider a contribution? You don’t need to have a disease to contribute. The same way that people come out to applaud and cheer—out the windows, on the rooftops—many of those people are probably not sick, they’re just grateful that there are people out there who are trying to help. I think there’s a feeling of camaraderie. Serve your community and the world in general. Is laughter the best medicine? I’m one of the few doctors who has a longstanding career in comedy. There’s no question that laughter releases endorphins. When I had my heart attack, and they were working to place the stent, I was still awake and felt what they were doing. On the operating table, I was joking to the surgeon: “I feel you in my heart, and not in a romantic way.” Even in that situation, I was looking for the humor. It’s about being positive. I try to open my mind to all positive things because it can’t diminish you to do so. Jeffrey Gurian is a comedian/comedy writer, radio personality, author, producer, and journalist. He also trained as a cosmetic dentist and served previously for 12 years as a clinical professor within the Oral/Medicine/Oro-Facial Pain Department of New York University’s College of Dentistry. Follow him on Twitter and Instagram @jeffreygurian Five-year-old receiving treatment for cancer blossoms thanks to Sala Institute. On a cold day in January 2020, five-year-old Zemirah arrived in New York City from her home in St. Vincent Island in the Caribbean. Zemi had been very recently diagnosed with neuroblastoma, a rare cancer that occurs in the sympathetic nervous system, a part of the nervous system that helps control the body’s response to stress. The sympathetic nervous system includes organs and structures such as the intestines, smooth muscle, heart, and glands. A close family friend urged her parents to bring Zemi to New York for treatment at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone. Sadly, her parents couldn’t stay with her, and friends of the family stepped in to be with Zemi. The team at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital admitted Zemi to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) and immediately began aggressive treatment of her cancer. She had brain surgery to remove her tumor and then started multiple rounds of high-dose chemotherapy. Her medical team, led by Elizabeth Raetz, MD, division director of hematology-oncology, could also see how scared Zemi was without her family, so they turned to the Child Life team, part of Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, to support the young patient. Beth Kramsky, a certified child life therapist, answered the call and went to her bedside. “When Zemi was first hospitalized, she was withdrawn and anxious when meeting new staff and being in a new environment,” says Beth. “This is completely normal and one of the main reasons child life services are available—to counteract these feelings and help kids like Zemi feel more comfortable and supported.” Slowly Zemi engaged with the Sala team. She began to participate in activities most five-year-olds enjoy—like drawing, story time, and dancing to music. And her family away from home started to see the difference. “Zemi loves art so much! Art therapy definitely makes her feel more normal in the hospital, and engaging in any kind of art with her fingers—sand art, painting—are some of her favorite activities,” says Cherish Joseph, her cousin. Together the newly formed family did crafts and played games. “We also love to play bingo and hide and seek, and we have the best dance parties! We have a lot of fun together.” Zemi, a five-year-old cancer patient, enjoys doing arts and crafts with the Child Life team, part of Sala Institute. Zemi has had a long journey since she first came to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. And she’s not done yet. She has undergone two stem cell transplants and is currently receiving immunotherapy. Despite these aggressive treatments, she still enjoys many of the activities and supportive care made possible by Sala. “Zemi is a tough little girl, but she always has a smile on her face,” says Dr. Raetz. Her family at home and in New York is grateful for the medical and supportive care Zemi has received at every step of the way. “She had an understandably challenging start, but she’s adjusted really well and has been responding to treatment like a champ,” reports Cherish. “Zemi is doing very well—we’re seeing a lot of good progress, thanks to the doctors, nurses, and Sala Institute team.” After creating and selling bracelets to help other kids, sisters tour Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital to see the impact of their latest venture. Sienna and Skye Alper are sisters from New York who inherited the family gene for crafting and selling jewelry. Hard workers and tough negotiators, Sienna and Skye make all their own business decisions–including the idea of donating their proceeds to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, which they recently toured to see firsthand the impact of their latest venture. And, oh yes—Sienna is 6 1/2, Skye, 4. Skye and Sienna donated the proceeds from their bracelet sales to Hassenfeld Children's Hospital. The story of their gift began when the sisters spent a morning making bracelet after bracelet. Their mother, Randi Udell-Alper, who is vice president at London Jewelers, suggested that they sell the bracelets at the East Hampton store since the girls had made so many. Sienna asked her mom if there was a children’s hospital they could donate the proceeds to, and Randi suggested Hassenfeld; she posted photos of the bracelets on social media, helping to drive customers to the store to buy them. Determined to maximize their gift, Sienna told her buyers “this is for charity—no change” if they paid more cash than was needed for a bracelet. Altogether, they raised about $2,000 from selling the jewelry. Learning about teamwork has been an important component of the sisters’ partnership, and they have found pleasure in philanthropy. Sienna’s next project, she says, will be to raise money to help dogs; her grandmother currently relocates stray dogs to shelters so that they can find new homes. One night late at work, Tanya Torosian received an unusual request. She’s a pediatric clinical pharmacist who works the overnight shift at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital, and that night she was given a medication order that exceeded the standard dose range for a child. Tanya contacted the provider who had requested the medicine and together they spoke about their shared concern with the physician specialist at 4:30 am. Tanya explained the patient’s other medications and together they agreed to maintain the current dosage. Tanya isn’t just a pharmacist. She’s also a safety coach, and the training she received for this special role equipped her with several important skills she used that night. “The tools I gained as a safety coach—to ask clarifying questions, stop and resolve, and don’t proceed in the face of uncertainty—helped me to resolve this issue,” Tanya says. Deanna Steffens, BS Pharm, MS Pharm, BCPPS (left), and Tanya Torosian, BS Pharm, MS Pharm, BCPPS (right), are not only sisters. They’re also pediatric clinical pharmacists and safety coaches at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. The Safety Coach Program supports hospital staff as they provide care to patients and families. The Safety Coach Program was created by the Children’s Hospitals’ Solutions for Patient Safety network, and in early 2020, it was tested and implemented by Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, which leads patient safety and quality initiatives at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Safety coaches are on the front lines working in hospital units to ensure medical and surgical care is safer for patients. They have been trained to observe colleagues’ work behaviors and provide feedback and positive reinforcement to their peers about safe patient care practices. According to Fiona Levy, MD, executive director of Sala Institute, any faculty or staff member with an interest in and commitment to patient safety can become a coach. “We ask our unit leaders to think broadly when nominating someone to the program, and as a result, we have doctors, nurses, nurse practitioners, pharmacists, patient care technicians, and patient unit assistants,” says Dr. Levy. Through the training program for new coaches, the Sala team shares peer coaching techniques and provides advanced education to participants on safety behaviors and tools. “We develop our safety coaches as communicators, educators, role models, observers, storytellers, and ultimately change agents within their respective units” says Rebecca Kerns, senior project coordinator at Sala Institute. There are three core behavioral expectations explored throughout training that reinforce a shared responsibility to deliver safe patient care across the hospital. Together these three expectations demonstrate a deep commitment to patient and staff safety: Everyone makes a personal commitment to safety Everyone is accountable for clear and complete communication Everyone supports a questioning attitude Safety coaches reinforce these expectations and tools on their units. Not only do they coach their colleagues in real time, but they also model best practices. Deanna Steffens, who happens to be Tanya’s sister and also a pediatric clinical pharmacist and safety coach, says, “While we used safety practices before, now the Safety Coach Program has given additional training and strengthened our investigating, documenting, and sharing efforts.” Pradeep Mally, MD, division director of neonatology, has witnessed this deepened focus on safety firsthand in the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU). “Right now, it’s a culture change in the NICU,” says Dr. Mally. “During every shift there are at least two safety coaches who are identified in the NICU. Over the last couple of months, we have seen increased use of safety behaviors and tools, and every staff member feels supported in providing the safest possible care to newborns and the greatest comfort to families.” How to help make a child's vaccination experience positive. Pediatric patients are cruising in their new ride to the operating room. Visitors and staff in the Pediatric Surgery Center at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital–34th Street will need to watch out. Young patients can drive themselves from the pre-operative area to their procedures in a pint-size Mini Cooper. Before introducing this little buggy, the surgery team went to the Sala Family and Youth Advisory Councils for input on how to present the program in a sensitive and supportive manner to all patients and families. They listened to parents’ concerns, along with ideas from teens and families about how to make rides to the operating room as fun as possible, while developing alternatives for children who may not be able to drive for safety reasons. “Our intention is to improve the experience overall for children who are having a procedure,” says Jennifer Holohan, senior child life specialist in the pediatric surgery unit. “We know that surgery can be particularly stressful for children and parents alike, so we are happy to do anything we can to make it distracting and a bit more fun.” The new ride was brought to Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital thanks to The Paul Luisi Foundation, which raises funds for pediatric cancer research and for therapeutic tools for children’s hospitals. The foundation was created in honor of Paul Luisi, who was diagnosed with leukemia at an early age. Health Equity Institute makes sure that patient care, medical research, and medical professionals reflect underrepresented populations. Imagine a world that gives every single person an opportunity to live the healthiest life possible. This is the ultimate goal of health equity, which addresses barriers to good health, like limited access to nutritious food, a good education, or an affordable home. NYU Langone Health recently launched the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity to help advance health equity in communities and make sure that patient care, medical research, and medical professionals reflect underrepresented populations. The institute will mentor clinicians and medical trainees of color, contribute to national policy on health equity, educate medical students on this topic, and conduct research into health issues that affect minority populations more than white populations. Gbenga Ogedegbe, MD, MPH, new director of the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, meets with Amanda Shallcross, MPH, ND The Institute for Excellence in Health Equity will be led by Gbenga Ogedegbe, MD, MPH. Dr. Ogedegbe is the Dr. Adolph and Margaret Berger Professor of Medicine and Population Health, director of the Center for Healthful Behavior Change, and director of the Division of Health & Behavior in the Department of Population Health. He is an internationally renowned physician-scientist and expert in health equity research with a focus on implementing evidence-based interventions targeted at cardiovascular risk reduction in minority populations. Four pillars to maximize impact The Institute for Excellence in Health Equity will be organized by four pillars—research, education, clinical care, and community—and will leverage existing academic talent in developing programs designed to accelerate the careers of the next generation of trainees and faculty. The research pillar will impact national policy on health equity by focusing on innovative, multi-centered, and cutting-edge peer-reviewed grants. The education pillar will advance undergraduate and graduate medical training by ensuring that students appreciate and integrate issues related to health equity. The institute will also serve to mentor trainees and faculty regarding professional milestones, thus encouraging and facilitating successful academic careers. The clinical care pillar will adapt NYU Langone Health delivery systems to achieve excellence in health equity outcomes, and the community pillar will advance health equity with a goal of fashioning scalable solutions to the health