‘How many injections will I need?’ What we’re trying to do is provide some prognostic value when the patient shows up to see the physician.” While more research is needed before the tool can be introduced in the clinic, the new findings validate the predictive model and serve as a proof of concept for second- and third-generation models. “With central retinal vein occlusion, there are hugely disparate outcomes. The best predictor of long-term vision is the visual acuity you present with,” Dr. Modi says. “We have all this sophisticated imaging and other relevant data, but we don’t know if those are relevant in a predictive way.” Predicting Outcomes The researchers used datasets from the COPERNICUS GALILEO clinical trials, which tested intravitreal aflibercept injection for MEfCRVO. Both trials mandated six monthly injections; patients were then moved into a pro re nata (PRN; as needed) window and followed for at least one year. “Our goal was to see if we could predict what would happen to individuals after they reached the PRN threshold,” says Dr. Modi. The algorithm evaluated best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and central subfield thickness (CST) over a range of time points to predict outcomes at the one-year mark. BCVA at weeks 20 and 24 (the visits before switching from monthly to PRN treatment) were the best predictors of change in BCVA; CST at baseline was a predictor of change in CST, but not absolute CST. “The algorithm was very good at predicting absolute visual acuity six months after switching over to PRN treatment, as well as change in visual acuity,” Dr. Modi says. “It was less reliable at predicting the absolute central subfield thickness, however.” Translating Machine Learning to the Clinic Algorithms, while very good at diagnosing the stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR), are currently not able to outperform humans in differential diagnosis, Dr. Modi says. Yet with the sheer number of individuals who need to be screened for DR nationwide, there is value in applying assistive algorithms. NYU Langone has a remote DR screening program—a semi-automated camera in the field takes an image, which is then sent to a retinal specialist who interprets it as mild, moderate, severe, or proliferative DR. Algorithms don’t have that granularity just yet, Dr. Modi explains. “There are, however, already FDA-approved AI cameras that can decipher moderate diabetic retinopathy or worse. This binary branch point then triggers an alert to schedule an in-person visit.” It’s easy to see the future as these algorithms get progressively better, he adds. “What if in Walmart or CVS, for instance, patients could get a real-time diagnosis using an algorithm to read the image? If the algorithm detects a significant abnormality, you see a doctor right away. If not, you get screened annually.” Augmenting the Algorithm with Optical Coherence Tomography Moving forward, the team hopes to conduct a prospective study to test the CRVO algorithm, perhaps including optical coherence tomography (OCT) in a supervised fashion. “These are older studies; OCT images are much better now,” Dr. Modi says. He is interested in changes on OCT that might serve as predictive biomarkers. “However, the more you annotate the image, the more you add your own bias when you’re developing an algorithm,” he notes. “It’s a delicate balance.” Uveitis, Vitreoretinal Surgery, Retinal Ophthalmology Yasha S. Modi, MD, is a vitreoretinal surgeon and an associate professor in the Department of Ophthalmology. His research focuses on imaging in retinal vascular disease, including diabetes and vein occlusion, retinal drug toxicity, age-related macular degeneration, and the outcomes of retinal detachment surgery. Presenters at the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting Our cancer experts join international colleagues in San Diego from April 5 to 10. Disparities in Breast Cancer Care: How Risk Assessments Can Address the Gap Breast surgeon Dr. Kathie-Ann Joseph stresses greater vigilance regarding breast cancer risk in Black patients. Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Personalized Two-Fraction SBRT for Localized Prostate Cancer Investigators evaluate a novel two-fraction approach that uses genetic and MRI data to personalize the radiation dosage. Panfacial Necrosis Reported in Immunodeficient Patients with Mpox During the global mpox outbreak that began in 2022, NYU Langone Health ophthalmologists at and NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue cared for two patients whose advanced immunosuppression due to prior HIV infection led to previously unreported and unusually severe oculocutaneous manifestations. The Lancet Infectious Diseases , the clinicians reported that both patients with mpox infection developed severe lesions that spread to a confluent panfacial gangrene with skin necrosis around the eyes and eyelids. In one case, the gangrene caused bilateral globe compromise from corneal perforations. Despite intensive care, both patients died due to systemic complications from their treatment-resistant infections. “Our conclusion is that in patients with advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion.” Steven Carrubba, MD Based on careful histology and a review of decades-old case reports, the researchers found a striking similarity to symptoms of severe infection from the closely related vaccinia virus. “The big takeaway is that we can learn a lot about this disease from prior experiences with related orthopoxviruses that are genetically and clinically similar, such as smallpox and vaccinia,” says chief ophthalmology resident Steven Carrubba, MD, the study’s lead author. A Rare Progression Classic mpox symptoms often include a skin rash or painful lesions, while ophthalmic manifestations can include a vesicular rash around the eyes and eyelids, conjunctivitis, and blepharitis—and in more serious cases, corneal infection and scarring. Ophthalmology chair , who advised on the study, notes that mpox has the potential to be very severe in patients with undiagnosed or untreated immunosuppression, and that an immunological work-up should be considered in anyone presenting with the disease. “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past.” “This study underscores the importance of paying attention to previously published literature, even if it is from the distant past, when faced with new conditions or infectious diseases,” Dr. Colby says. “Through clinical analogy, we can anticipate which systemic and ophthalmic complications of mpox may arise in people who are immunocompromised, and what to expect during future outbreaks,” Dr. Carrubba adds. Lessons from History In very rare cases, according to historical reports, patients vaccinated against smallpox with a replicative form of the vaccinia virus developed profound cutaneous gangrene at the site of inoculation and subsequently throughout the body. In this “progressive vaccinia,” patients were unable to mount a lymphocyte-driven, cell-mediated skin response, which allowed the virus to spread and cause highly necrotic gangrenous lesions. Tellingly, that cutaneous gangrene occurred predominantly in patients with immunodeficiencies involving T cells, such as severe combined immunodeficiency, lymphoma, and leukemia. “Histologically and clinically, we saw almost the exact same findings in patients with advanced AIDS who became coinfected with mpox,” Dr. Carrubba says, including an almost complete lack of lymphocytes in the affected tissues. “Our conclusion is that in patients who have advanced cell-mediated immunodeficiencies like HIV/AIDS, confluent progressive necrosis can develop from an initial mpox lesion by uninhibited and contiguous spread of virus in tissues devoid of functional lymphocytes,” Dr. Carrubba says. “One lesion continues to expand because the immune system is not able to contain it, much like what clinicians saw with the vaccinia virus.” The similarities between progressive cutaneous mpox and progressive vaccinia also provide insight into how mpox corneal lesions may evolve after autoinoculation of an immune-deficient ocular surface, potentially explaining cases of necrotizing keratitis and globe compromise. Treatment Considerations Neither mpox patient had been vaccinated before the onset of symptoms nor had they been taking highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to treat their advanced AIDS. “For any immunosuppressed patient who presents with suspected mpox, even before official diagnosis, starting treatment early is key,” Dr. Carrubba says. The antiviral tecovirimat is the mainstay systemic treatment for mpox. In addition, he says, starting patients on HAART is critical for immune reconstitution, while a non-replicative mpox vaccine can be given within 14 days of suspected exposure, before symptom onset. For severe or treatment-resistant cases, the CDC recommends additional therapeutics such as cidofovir, brincidofovir, or vaccinia immune globulin. For patients with active skin lesions, maintaining good hand hygiene and avoiding contact lenses are important precautions against localized autoinoculation of the eyes, Dr. Carrubba adds. Trifluridine antiviral eyedrops can be used both prophylactically and as a treatment for corneal and conjunctival disease, while antibiotic and lubricating eyedrops can prevent bacterial superinfection and corneal desiccation. Based on similarities between mpox and vaccinia, Dr. Carrubba says, the population at risk for progressive cutaneous or ophthalmic mpox extends beyond patients with HIV/AIDS to include people with hematologic malignancies, such as leukemia and lymphoma, and other diseases that compromise host lymphocyte function. “It’s important for patients and clinicians to maintain awareness that such severe disease can occur in immunocompromised populations so that both parties can seek the right preventive and treatment measures,” he says. Steven Carrubba, MD, is chief resident within the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Alec Kimmelman On Highlights from AACR 2024 Alec Kimmelman, MD, PhD. Source: NYU Langone Health. For anyone who missed the 2024 AACR Annual Meeting, director of the at NYU Langone Health , discussed some of the most interesting and important topics during a recent interview with , at Doctor Radio on Sirius XM. Subscribers can hear the full discussion One of the things that the American Association for Cancer Research focused on is this idea that younger people are getting cancer, and maybe it has something to do with biological aging. Why is this happening? Is it processed foods? Is it alcohol? What’s causing the increase that we’re finding in cancer rates in younger people? It’s multifactorial, and I don’t think we really, truly have a handle on it. Each cancer is probably going to be a bit different. I mean, exposures are certainly something that is in play here. The food we eat, the microbiome, all of them are in play here. And you’re right, cellular aging is an emerging field that may explain some of this. But I don’t think we have the answer yet in a way that could be useful, to help us at this point. What about personalized medicine? Is everybody going to have a different treatment for their cancer? Absolutely. The goal is to be able to take a patient’s tumor—and this is something that we’re building here, and offer a lot of already—and analyze it comprehensively, assessing the genetic makeup and histological makeup. We aim to understand the unique nature of each patient’s tumor. What do we know about it? How do we expect it will behave? What drugs will this respond to? And you have to do that both accurately, but also relatively quickly, because you can’t wait months to start cancer therapy on patients. “The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs.” The ultimate goal will be to take a patient’s tumor, make a diagnosis, and have them leave the same day with a personalized cocktail of chemotherapeutics—hopefully oral drugs that target specific mutations in their tumor—so their particular tumor receives the optimal therapy. All of this has to be paired together. It’s what we’re doing now, and it’s only going to become more prevalent. You’re working with CRISPR genetic alterations. We’re going into almost a science-fiction world where we’re altering genetics as well as proteomics to create treatments, right? You’re right, we have tools now that we’ve never had before. We can do gene editing, which is what CRISPR is. And we can actually change individual nucleotides or base pairs in a tumor. So, you can imagine scenarios where you can correct defects. What we’re going to try and do, and we have been doing, is to make the tumors more immunogenic. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing enzyme, computer illustration. SOURCE: Getty Images. The mRNA vaccine technology is also very powerful. It allows a very rapid way to personalize vaccines. At AACR, longer-term results of an mRNA vaccine for pancreatic cancer were announced. That team showed that there are sustained immune responses out to a couple of years. So, I think it’s an exciting time. And going back to your point about translational research, this is the ultimate example, where you can make a personalized vaccine for a patient in a fairly quick amount of time. We have to do better, but it’s just amazing how fast that can go. How does all of this extend to healthcare disparities? Because one of the things we didn’t mention yet is cost, and cost is enormous when you have new treatments, especially if it’s genetic editing. How are we going to make sure everybody gets access to this? One of the main focuses of a cancer center is to study the disparities that occur in our catchment area. So, we spend a lot of time first understanding what the disparities are in incidence. We have robust epidemiological programs to understand what are the disparities for cancer in our own area, which can also apply more broadly. There are whole community outreach and engagement programs that we have here to make sure that patients understand what therapies are available to them and what the important preventative measures are, like vaccines for HPV. We want to make sure that they have access to all of the latest and greatest therapies. “We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us.” So, we spend a lot of time making sure that patients are aware and have access to quality care. We also have programs here to ensure that everyone gets access to clinical trials, regardless of their socioeconomic status. That’s very important to us. Ultimately, as a healthcare system, the country is going to have to figure [this] out, and there’s going to be an issue in terms of the cost of healthcare. But I can say here we make sure that all of our latest clinical trials and latest developments are available to everybody. One final question about AACR, which is liquid biopsy, diagnosing things from blood tests. Where are we heading in the future? There’s a ton on this now, and I think people have probably heard about this in multiple different contexts. One is in the context of early detection. I think the trials are still ongoing in terms of the utility of it in that space. The other area is using it to follow patients with cancer. And this is where we’re very involved, because I think this is really the future of oncology, which is we’re going to need to follow patients with imaging to see when their tumors come back. But that takes hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of cells to see anything on MRI or a PET scan. But by taking a simple peripheral blood draw, we can sequence that blood and look for mutations from tumors, and then detect the cancer before we even see it on any sort of imaging. So, there’s an early detection for following therapy, and this allows us to change our therapies more quickly. But we can also follow what the next best therapy is because we could see that the cancer developed a resistance mutation, and that this drug will be more effective than the drug that you’re on, and we can make those changes early. And then [there’s] deescalating therapy. If a patient just had surgery and the circulating tumor DNA goes away, that patient might be someone who we can deescalate therapy in because we don’t see circulating tumor DNA. These are things that we use consistently here, and make sure that all patients have access to, but it really is the future. Taking a BOLD Step for Early Dementia Detection With the number of Americans living with Alzheimer’s disease and other dementias expected to approach 14 million by 2050, an improved national strategy for dementia research, detection, and treatment will be crucial to mitigating the impact on patients, caregivers, and society at large. Recognizing that challenge, the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) recently established the Building Our Largest Dementia (BOLD) Infrastructure Public Health Centers of Excellence (PHCOEs) program, creating three national centers to lead efforts in the areas of early detection, risk reduction, and caregiving. NYU Langone Health was selected to house the BOLD center on Early Detection of Dementia, working alongside a center for Dementia Risk Reduction, administered by the Alzheimer’s Association, and one for Dementia Caregiving, based at the University of Minnesota. , co-directs the NYU Langone–based center with Soo Borson, MD, of the University of Southern California’s Keck School of Medicine. “Today, about 50 percent of people who live symptomatically with this condition go undiagnosed, and the consequences can be enormous,” says Dr. Chodosh. “Our charge is to help improve that record. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs, and in which early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” It is by design that the three centers overlap in their areas of focus, Dr. Chodosh adds. “We recognize the tremendous potential for collaboration. Risk reduction strategies, for example, may also serve as mitigating strategies, which typically work best in the context of early detection. Furthermore, those strategies may ease the burdens that dementia places on caregivers.” A National Resource on Early Detection A major initial step in the NYU Langone–based center’s mission was the creation of a multifaceted web portal —a national comprehensive resource of information on strategies to promote and enhance early dementia detection. Launched in May 2022, the site offers resources for policymakers, public agencies, nonprofits, clinicians, and other stakeholders who seek to develop or expand such efforts. Currently, clinical resources available on the portal include an early detection of dementia toolkit and a technical assistance component, which allows organizations to request the center’s expert help with decision-making, capacity building, strategic planning, networking, and other vital tasks. Additionally, the portal includes a library of infographics, newsletters, and articles. Video presentations are in development. Empowering Primary Care Providers and Communities The NYU Langone–based center’s overarching vision is to make early detection of dementia routine practice nationwide, says Dr. Chodosh. “Our position is that the place for this is really primary care. A major impediment to expanding detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” “A major impediment to expanding early detection is the assumption that it requires extremely specialized skills. Non-neurologist physicians often feel uncomfortable making a diagnosis—when in many instances, they can and should.” The center will offer education in various formats, including a comprehensive care pathway and other educational materials for providers, seminars, symposia, and other events. To improve health equity in dementia detection and treatment, it will disseminate information on public health, clinical, and community initiatives to partner organizations at the local level. “We envision a world in which dementia is detected before a crisis occurs,” says Dr. Chodosh, “Early detection promotes better health and wellbeing not only of older adults, but also of their families, friends, and communities.” No Link Found Between Bell’s Palsy & COVID-19 Vaccination A large meta-analysis finds no association between COVID-19 vaccination status and an increased risk of Bell’s palsy. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg . 2023 Jun 5. doi: 10.1002/ohn.385. Soon after the arrival of effective vaccines for the COVID-19 virus, a few patients reported Bell’s palsy or similar forms of facial paralysis on sites like the CDC’s Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS), which collects raw data for further analysis into whether any correlation may point toward causation. Initial studies suggested that no link existed between the paralysis and the vaccines, but researchers hadn’t assembled and analyzed clinical data from large cohorts to provide a more definitive answer. In a systematic review and meta-analysis published in the journal , NYU Langone Health researchers have now shown from a pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients that there is no association between Bell’s palsy and COVID-19 vaccination “We’ve done a thorough investigation and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial plastic and reconstructive surgeon , the paper’s senior author, specializes in treating facial paralysis and sees many patients with Bell’s palsy and similar conditions. “I would get a lot of patients coming in and asking me if they should get the vaccine because they were worried about a potential link to the paralysis,” she says. “They were really fearful about it and I wanted to be able to give them a clear, evidence-based answer. That’s what prompted us to look into the question further.” A Reassuring Finding for Patients Dr. Eytan and two colleagues included every study around the world with more than 10,000 research subjects and compared the incidence of facial paralysis after vaccination with the incidence in unvaccinated control populations. In all, seven studies yielded a combined pool of more than 20 million vaccinated patients compared to an equivalent number of unvaccinated counterparts. Regardless of whether the patients received one or two doses, and whether they received a vaccine made by Moderna, Pfizer, or AstraZeneca, the researchers found no significant difference in Bell’s palsy rates compared with the general population. “The patients are curious: is one vaccine better than the other? There’s no concern there from what we found,” she says. “In fact, unvaccinated individuals who got the COVID-19 virus itself had a higher risk of Bell’s palsy compared to those who were vaccinated.” If anything, then, vaccination appeared to provide protection from the facial paralysis. With the study results in hand, Dr. Eytan has been able to reassure her patients that they shouldn’t fear vaccination. “We can now also remind them that the risk for paralysis is actually even greater if they do get COVID-19,” she says. The message is the same for physicians, she adds: “The evidence is there. We’ve done a thorough investigation by looking at millions of given vaccines and we can confidently tell patients that there is no increased risk for paralysis.” Facial Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Cosmetic Plastic Surgery, Pediatric Plastic Surgery Danielle Eytan, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of otolaryngology—head and neck surgery. She specializes in facial plastic and reconstructive surgery, facial paralysis and reanimation, cosmetic plastic surgery, and pediatric plastic surgery. Refining Trauma Care to Better Serve Older Adults Geriatric trauma patients presenting in the emergency department are at high risk for complications and mortality during hospitalization and less likely to be discharged home. In a pilot program funded by a grant from The Fan Fox and Leslie R. Samuels Foundation , NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn will comprehensively examine the geriatric trauma care experience. “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population.” “We are looking at those geriatric patients with serious traumatic injuries and trying to develop innovative solutions to provide better care in a complex and vulnerable patient population,” says , medical director of geriatric medicine and palliative care at NYU Langone—Brooklyn. “This program establishes a purposeful process that in and of itself should ensure a higher level of care quality.” “Geriatricians, and geriatrics as a specialty, have worked hard to improve the inpatient experience for older patients,” says , director of the Division of Geriatric Medicine and Palliative Care at NYU Langone Health. “The Brooklyn program will help to ‘bake in’ new strategies so that the geriatric population can be cared for in a certain way, with greater reliability.” Steps to Improve Geriatric Trauma Care Since 2019, geriatric specialists at NYU Langone—Brooklyn have played a robust role in acute trauma care, supporting the trauma service as they navigate core issues for elderly trauma patients such as frailty, delirium, and dementia. Led by Dr. Parker, the new program, called “Beyond Hospital Doors—Aging Wisely,” will expand the approach to further integrate emergency medicine, trauma, geriatrics, social work, nutrition, nursing, physical therapy, and pharmacy. “We have built a solid infrastructure to ensure this integration happens predictably,” she says. Focused meetings will be held with all clinical stakeholders to discuss how to collectively care for geriatric trauma patients. A weekly interdisciplinary work group including geriatrics, social work, physical therapy, and trauma will identify barriers to home discharge and formulate new care solutions. “We want to be sure the right kind of information is transmitted, and the right kind of actions can be taken,” Dr. Parker notes. Returning Patients to Pre-injury Living The 18-month pilot program aims to increase discharge to home by 10 percent, reducing transfer to skilled nursing. The hope is that with increased support, patients will be able to resume normal activities with greater ease and independence post-hospitalization. Another aim is to minimize polypharmacy by decreasing the number of medications or frequency of medication use—removing any medications that cause cognitive impairment. To reduce barriers to care, social workers will identify family and social support networks that can aid in healthcare decisions. The trauma team will initiate documented advance care planning discussions within 48 hours of admission and identify the need for further social work involvement. Transitional care management will be expanded for patients without primary care physicians or those who cannot see a primary care physician within two weeks. The program will increase early physical therapy and nutrition consults. Additionally, it will connect patients with services in the community that address vulnerabilities such as food insecurity and other social variables influencing health. “It’s been very rewarding to see the collaboration among the different departments here at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and to establish a more interdisciplinary model of care,” Dr. Parker says. “Everyone is working hard to see how they can improve care of these patients.” The Groundwork for Change According to Dr. Chodosh, the program is an opportunity to establish best practices and structures so that even in the absence of a large geriatric care workforce, clinicians elsewhere on the front lines can still “do the right thing.” “If we do a good job of clarifying the actions that yield the most benefit and how to achieve those actions, it will enable those who aren’t trained in geriatrics to focus on key principles, key issues, and key approaches to ensure we have the best outcomes for this population,” he says. Palliative Care, Geriatrics Lauren A. Parker, MD, is a clinical associate professor and medical director of geriatrics and palliative care at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn. Her research focuses on evidence-based care of vulnerable older adults. Mapping the Neural Networks Behind One-Shot Perceptual Learning Eric K. Oermann, MD, and Biyu J. He, PhD Learning from single events is a crucial element of human perceptual reasoning. Yet the neural networks that govern one-shot perceptual learning (as the process is known) are poorly understood. A $1.2 million grant from the W. M. Keck Foundation will enable NYU Langone Health researchers Biyu J. He, PhD , to explore those systems in unprecedented depth, using advanced imaging and computational techniques. The two hope that in the process the research will unveil new insights into the perceptual anomalies associated with many psychiatric illnesses. “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis,” explains Dr. He, an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. “Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments.” “The mechanisms thought to enable one-shot perceptual learning are also associated with a wide range of psychopathologies, including anxiety, post-traumatic stress disorder, and psychosis. Developing detailed models for how this type of learning works could help us develop better treatments for those disorders.” This project also aims to solve a very different puzzle: how to improve perceptual learning in artificial intelligence (AI). “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning,” says Dr. Oermann, an assistant professor of neurosurgery and radiology. “By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” Building on Previous Work A classic example of one-shot perceptual learning involves a so-called Mooney image—a photo of an object that has been degraded to a low-resolution, black-and-white image that is difficult to identify. In human trials, participants can typically recognize such an image after a single exposure to the original, intact photo. Once they’ve made that connection, moreover, they can remember it for days, months, or even longer. Previous studies by Dr. He and colleagues have suggested involvement of the frontoparietal and default-mode networks in Mooney image disambiguation. “Our findings support the idea that these areas play a special role in leveraging prior experience to guide perceptual processing,” Dr. He observes. “They also support theories positing aberrant interactions between internal priors and sensory input in psychiatric illnesses, which are often associated with abnormal patterns of activity in those brain regions.” Another study by Dr. He and her collaborator, Larry Squire, PhD, at the University of California, San Diego, in which patients with hippocampal lesions successfully performed a Mooney image task, showed that one-shot perceptual learning—unlike one-shot declarative memory— is not mediated by the hippocampus . “This suggests that non-hippocampal neural pathways may also be involved in the perceptual dysfunctions in psychiatric disorders,” says Dr. He. Forging New Paths In the new study, Dr. He and Dr. Oermann will seek to identify the larger neural networks mediating one-shot perceptual learning by combining behavioral experiments with 7-Tesla functional MRI (fMRI) and magnetoencephalography (MEG) in healthy volunteers. They will also perform intracranial recordings in neurosurgical patients during learning and other tasks. As they gather experimental data, Dr. Oermann will use the advanced machine learning capabilities available through his NYU Langone laboratory to build an AI counterpart to what they are learning about humans. These models will be continually tested and refined as the research continues. “One-shot learning is one of the hardest problems in machine learning. By capturing the mechanisms behind this phenomenon in humans, we hope to develop more performant computational models.” “Our major goal is to have a better understanding of how the human brain performs one-shot learning,” says Dr. Oermann. “But we also hope the neuroscience will guide us toward developing biomimetic mechanisms for solving the problem of one-shot perceptual learning in machines. Without this type of research, AI could remain over-tailored to the problem of recognizing ambiguous images, without the full robustness of biological perceptual systems.” Both researchers point out that more robust AI models for one-shot perceptual learning, in turn, could lead to enhanced therapies for neurological ills—for example, by developing communication devices for patients with locked-in syndrome, or robotic surgical systems for brain tumor resection. Neurology, Radiology Biyu J. He, PhD, is an assistant professor of neurology, neuroscience and physiology, and radiology. Her research focuses on the biological bases of perceptual cognition and subjective experience, and on developing new approaches to bridge neural and computational understanding of perception and perceptual disorders. Presenters at the 2023 AANS Annual Meeting In April, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Association of Neurological Surgeons’ 2023 annual meeting in Los Angeles. The theme was “Neurosurgeons as Advocates.” View full conference information and abstract titles Friday, April 21 Practical Clinic PC2203: Technological Adjuncts for Malignant Brain Tumor Surgery Course Director : 8–11:30 am Saturday, April 22 Scientific Session Comparison of Disc Height Restoration and Subsidence Rates Between Static Versus Expandable Titanium Cages for Lateral Lumbar Interbody Fusion : Scientific Session II: Spine Presenter Kimberly Ashayeri, MD : 3:35–3:40 pm The Predictive Potential of Nutritional and Metabolic Burden: Development of a Novel Validated Metric Predicting Increased Post-Operative Complications in Adult Spinal Deformity Surgery : Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 3:41–3:46 pm Rosenblum-Mahaley Clinical Research Award (2023 Award Winner): GRASP Dynamic Contrast-Enhanced MRI Can Assist in Distinguishing Brain Metastasis Progression from Radiation Effects After Stereotactic Radiosurgery Scientific Session I: Tumor : Assaf Berger, MD 3:50–3:54 pm Better Teamwork Made Simple? Digital Preoperative Huddle Improves Quality and Efficiency in Neurosurgery Cases David B. Kurland, MD, PhD Scientific Session VI: Socioeconomic : 2:02–2:08 pm Sunday, April 23 Plenary Session II: Discussant Speaker : 9:03–9:05 am Artificial Intelligence for Brain Tumors: The Path Forward Section Session: Tumor : 1:33–1:43 pm Monday, April 24 Abstract Session Rapid Fire Research Forum Presenters Peter G. Passias, MD , Jamshaid M. Mir, MD : 7:25–9:50 am NYUMets: A Massive, Open-Source, Longitudinal Annotated Dataset of Metastatic Brain Cancer for Global Use Douglas Kondziolka, MD, MSc, FRCSC, FACS : 2:40–2:45 pm Managing Atrial Fibrillation in Older Patients Atrial fibrillation (A-fib) is the most common cardiac arrhythmia and carries a significant risk of stroke and heart failure. Older age is a known risk factor for the development of A-fib , and recent studies have demonstrated that screening asymptomatic older individuals with risk factors for stroke may be useful. At NYU Langone Health, cardiologists and geriatricians are partnering on a more proactive approach to identify older adults who may have A-fib but present with non–cardiac-specific symptoms. Integral to this effort is Adam H. Skolnick, MD , associate professor of medicine and a member of the , who recently published an editorial on this topic in the Journal of the American Geriatrics Society with co-author Nina Blachman, MD , assistant professor of medicine and director of the Geriatric Medicine Fellowship “Many older adults may not come to medical attention because they are unaware of their A-fib,” Dr. Skolnick says. “While many patients with A-fib do not report symptoms, some experience nonspecific symptoms, such as palpitation, dyspnea, or fatigue.” Silence Is Not Always Golden recent study published in the offered a first-time exploration of A-fib symptom perception, its impact on quality of life, and its relation to treatment strategies in older adults. The researchers found that patients aged 65 to