D. Southgate, MD, Erik Woelber, MD, Kathryn L. Schabel, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting19Introduction: The purpose of this study was to assess surgeon reimbursement among total joint arthroplasty patients with differing risk profiles within the Medicare population.Methods: The “2019 Medicare Physician and Other Provider” Medicare file was utilized. Data was filtered for all primary hip and knee arthroplasty procedures billed to Medicare in 2019. Patient demographics and comorbidity profiles were collected, including frequency of atrial fibrillation, Alzheimer's, congestive heart failure, chronic kidney disease, depression, diabetes, hypertension, ischemic heart disease, history of cancer and history of stroke. The mean patient hierarchal condition category (HCC) risk score, a standardized metric accounting for patient comorbidities which is normalized to 1.0 for a typical patient, was collected. Medicare surgeon reimbursement was collected. All procedure episodes were split into two cohorts: those with an HCC risk score of 1.5 or greater (higher risk cohort), and those with patient HCC risk scores less than 1.5 (lower risk cohort). Variables were compared utilizing Student T tests, and Chi squared analysis.Results: In 2019, 441,584 primary total hip and knee arthroplasty procedures were billed to Medicare and included. The mean reimbursement across all procedures was $1068.03. For the higher risk cohort (50,004 patients), these patients had a higher rate of all comorbidities compared to the lower risk cohort of 391,580 patients (p≤ 0.001 for all variables). The mean payment across the higher risk cohort was $1059.21, while the mean payment among the lower risk cohort was $1073.32 (p=.0324). Conclusion: Mean surgeon reimbursement within Medicare in 2019 was lower for primary total joint arthroplasty among higher risk arthroplasty patients in comparison to their healthier counterparts. Risk adjustment has been implemented for hospital payment, but does not yet exist for surgeon reimbursement. This study may suggest that risk adjustment for surgeon reimbursement in total joint arthroplasty should be implemented to properly incentivize the surgical care of patients likely requiring increased resources for care.NotesPaper #4Should Medicare Surgeon Reimbursement for Arthroplasty Be Risk Adjusted for Patient Complexity?Jack M. Haglin, MD, Joseph C. Brinkman, MD, David G. Deckey, MD, Sailesh Tummala, MD, Michael L. Moore, BS, Joshua S. Bingham, MD, Mark J. Spangehl, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program20Paper #5Do PROs Reflect Objective Measures of Function? Implications for Value Based Care in TKABrandon Hill, MS, Shivesh Shah, BA, Wayne E. Moschetti, MD, MS, Peter L. Schilling, MD, MSc Introduction: PROs are commonly used in research, clinical practice and by federal reimbursement models to assess outcomes for patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA) and TKA. This study examined a large cohort of these patients to determine whether commonly used PROs reflect performance, measured by standardized functional tests (SFTs), the gold standard objective measures of functional outcome.Methods: We used prospective PRO and SFT measurements through the Osteoarthritis Initiative (OAI), a ten year observational study of patients with, or at risk for, symptomatic femoral tibial knee osteoarthritis. From this data two cohorts were examined: 1) patients who received a TKA (n=292) and 2) patients with native OA (n=4687). PROs included WOMAC, KOOS, SF 12, and ICOAP. SFTs included 20M walk pace, 400M walk pace and chair stand times. Spearman and Pearson correlation coefficients were used to determine the relationship between PROs and SFTs.Results: There was a low level of correlation between PROs and objective measures of functional outcomes across nearly all SFT and PRO metrics and in both cohorts. The magnitude of correlation between WOMAC/KOOS subscale and SFT measurements in native OA patients ranged as follows: 400 M walk pace (.16 .23), chair stand time (.23 .29) and 20 M pace (.21 .3). In the TKA cohort, values ranged as follows: 400 M walk pace (.11 .28), chair stand time (.17 .32) and 20 M pace (.18 .37). All were statistically significant to p< 0.05. Similar relationships were found between SFTs and SF 12/ICOAP. Conclusion: PROs are not strongly associated with SFTs in either OA or TKA patients, even when SFTs are collected in a controlled environment. If SFTs are the gold standard for objective evaluation of functional capacity, then today's PROs are a poor indicator of functional outcome and must be influenced by other factors. Adoption of PROs as a proxy for functional outcomes warrants caution due to an incomplete understanding of their limitations.Notes21www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: While Medicare requires patient reported outcome measures (PROM) for many quality programs, some commercial insurers have begun requiring preoperative PROMs when determining patient eligibility for total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Concerns exist that this data may be used to deny TKA to patients above a specific PROM score, but the optimal threshold is unknown. This study's purpose was to evaluate postoperative outcomes following TKA based on theoretical PROM thresholds.Methods: We retrospectively analyzed 25,246 consecutive primary TKA patients from 29 facilities and 44 surgeons from 2016 to 2019. Hypothesized preoperative KOOS Jr. cutoffs of 40, 50, 60, 70 points were used. Preoperative scores below each threshold were considered “approved” surgery, while preoperative scores above each threshold were considered “denied” surgery. In hospital complications, 90 day readmissions, discharge disposition were evaluated. KOOS Jr. scores were collected preoperatively and one year postoperatively. Minimum clinically important difference (MCID) achievement was calculated using previously validated anchor based methods.Results: In patients approved for surgery using KOOS Jr. thresholds of 40, 50, 60, 70 points, MCID achievement at one year was 88., 85., 79., , respectively. In hospital complication rates for approved patients were 2., 2., 2., 2., respectively. 90 day readmission rates for approved patients were 4., 4., 4., 4., respectively. Approved patients had a higher rate of achieving MCID (p< 0.001) for all thresholds, but a higher rate of non home discharge (p=0.01) for thresholds of 40 (p< 0.001), 50 (p=0.002), and 60 (p=0.024) compared to denied patients. Approved patients had similar in hospital complication and 90 day readmission rates to denied patients.Conclusion: The majority of patients achieved MCID at all theoretical PROMs thresholds for TKA eligibility with low complication and readmission rates. Setting preoperative PROM thresholds to approve TKA did not guarantee clinically successful outcomes. Such a future policy will create access to care barriers for patients who would otherwise benefit from a TKA.NotesPaper #6 Preoperative Patient Reported Outcome Measure Thresholds Should Not be Used for Indicating Total Knee Ryan M. Sutton, MD, Colin M. Baker, BS, Taylor D'Amore, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program22Introduction: No study or registry achieves response rates to PROMs. This study aims to determine satisfaction rates after hip and knee arthroplasty in patients who did not initially respond to PROMs, characteristics of non responders and exploring contact preferences to maximize response rates. Methods: Prospective cohort study of 709 patients planned to undergo hip arthroplasty and 737 patients planned to undergo knee arthroplasty at a single center in 2018. PROMs questionnaires including the EQ 5D health related quality of life score and Oxford Hip/Knee Scores (OHS/OKS) were completed prior to surgery. Follow up questionnaires were sent by post at 1 year including additional satisfaction scoring. Univariate, multivariate and receiver operator curve analysis was performed. Results: Among hip patients 151/709 (21.) were true non responders, 83 (55.) of whom were contactable. Among knee patients 108/737 (14.) were true non responders, 91 (84.) of whom were contactable. There was no difference in satisfaction after arthroplasty between initial non responders and responders for hips (74/81 vs 476/516, p=0.847) or knees (81/93 vs 470/561, p=0.480). Initial and persistent non response was associated with younger age, higher BMIs and significantly worse preoperative PROMs for both hip and knee patients (p< 0.05). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that younger age (p< 0.001), higher BMI (p=0.003) and poorer preoperative OHS (p=0.019) were independently associated with persistent non response to hip PROMs, no independent association with persistent non response were identified for knees. For the entire cohort (n=1352) compared to older patients, patients < 67 years were less likely to respond to postal PROMs with OR 0.63 (0.558 to 0.711). Using a threshold of >66.4 years predicted a preference for contact by post with 65. sensitivity and 68. specificity (AUC 0.723 (0.647 0.799 CI, p< 0.001)). Conclusion: The majority of initial non responders were ultimately contactable with effort. Satisfaction rates were not inferior in patients who did not initially respond to PROMs.NotesPaper #7Loss to Patient Reported Outcome Measure (PROM) Follow up After Hip and Knee ArthroplastyLauren A. Ross, Sara O'Rourke, Gemma Toland, Deborah J. Mac Donald, BA, Nick D. Clement, MD, PhD, Chloe E. H. Scott, MD, FRCS (ORTHO)www.AAHKS.org/Meeting23Introduction: The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Comprehensive Care for Joint Replacement (CJR) model links quality with hospital reimbursement for total joint arthroplasty (TJA). Patient reported outcome measures (PROMs) serve as a component of quality scores. CJR has mandated preoperative and postoperative PROMs compliance by 2023. This study evaluates PROM compliance and resource utilization to capture PROMs at a high volume center with extensive experience in alternative payment models (APMs). Methods: This is a retrospective analysis of a consecutive series of patients undergoing primary TJA from 2016 2019 at a single institution. Compliance rates were obtained for HOOS JR, KOOS JR and SF 12 surveys. Direct supply and staff labor costs for PROMs collection were obtained. Time driven activity based costing (TDABC) estimated resource utilization for PROMs collection. Descriptive statistics were presented as mean and standard deviation for normally distributed data by Kolmogorov Smirnov testing. Chi square testing was used to compare compliance rates between groups. Results: 43,252 (25,246 TKA;18,006 THA) total procedures were evaluated. Of these, 25,315 (15,797 TKA; 9,518 THA) were performed in CMS eligible patients. In the CMS eligible cohort, preoperative HOOS JR/KOOS JR compliance was 66.. Postoperative HOOS JR/KOOS JR compliance was 29., 46. and 27. at six months, one year and two years, respectively. Preoperative SF 12 compliance was . Postoperative SF 12 compliance rate was 35., 49. and 33. at six months, one year and two years. Medicare patients had lower PROM compliance than the overall cohort (p< 0.05) at all time points except preoperative KOOS JR and SF 12 in TKA patients. The estimated annual cost for PROM collections was $273,682 ($27,914 for personnel, $245,768 for fixed costs) with a total cost for the entire study period of $986,369. Conclusion: Despite extensive experience with APM's and a total expenditure of nearly $1,000,000, our center demonstrated low preoperative and postoperative PROM compliance rates. These results question the feasibility of widespread adoption of CMS PROMs reporting requirements.NotesPaper #8Patient Reported Outcome Measures for Total Joint Arthroplasty: Evaluation of Cost and ComplianceRyan M. Sutton, MD, Colin M. Baker, BS, Taylor D'Amore, MD, P. Maxwell Courtney, MD, Chad A. Krueger, MD, Matthew S. Austin, MD2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program24This dynamic session featuring didactics and demonstration videos will highlight how artificial intelligence tools are already positively impacting clinical hip and knee arthroplasty practice.Learning Objectives:1.Identify opportunities for orthopaedic practice enhancement with artificial intelligence tools.2.Evaluate the biggest opportunities for machine learning for clinical practice, research and payor relations. 3.Review the current state of research and identify the future avenues for innovation in AI.4.Identify gaps in our knowledge and better evaluate the ethics and research methodologies around AI.Outline:1.Computer Vision: Getting the Most Out of Clinical Imaging a. Implant Identification Viktor E. Krebs, MD b. Automated Annotation of Implant Position and Change in Position Cody C. Wyles, MD c. Intraoperative Enabling Technologies Michael J. Taunton, MD 2.Machine Learning and Value Based Care a. Predicting Inpatient vs Outpatient Surgery Michael J. Taunton, MD b. Patient Specific and Dynamic Risk Calculators for Dislocation and Periprosthetic Fracture Cody C. Wyles, MD c. AI and Value Based Care, Prediction of Outcomes and Implications for Payment Models Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA d. Discussion 3.Big Opportunities: Focus on the Near Future a. Big Data and AI: Dangers and Opportunities Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA b. Natural Language Processing as a Tool to Restore the Doctor Patient Relationship Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA c. National Data and Registry Data Viktor E. Krebs, MD d. Discussion / Q+A NotesSymposium IIAdvances in Arthroplasty Practice with Artificial Intelligence The Future is Now Moderator: Michael J. Taunton, MD Faculty: Cody C. Wyles, MD, Prem N. Ramkumar, MD, MBA, Viktor E. Krebs, MD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting25Introduction: Currently, there is no consensus as to when to safely perform elective total joint arthroplasty (TJA) after a COVID 19 infection. The purpose of this study was to evaluate how timing between infection and TJA affected complications and venous thromboembolism (VTE) rates. We hypothesized that a period of 90 days would improve complications and minimize VTE rates.Methods: A multicenter, retrospective review of consecutive unilateral primary TJA recipients was performed between 8/1/2020 11/30/2021. Patients were stratified into two cohorts based on whether they had COVID 19 within 1 year prior to elective TJA: COVID+ (n=221), COVID (n=433). Further, COVID+ patients were sub divided into two cohorts based on when they had their TJA in relation to a positive test result: TJA<90 days from COVID+ test (n=9) and TJA>90 days from COVID+ test (n=212). Chi Square and student t tests were used to analyze complications between groups.Results: Mean time from COVID+ diagnosis to TJA was 8.7 months. VTE rates (1. vs 0.; p=0.6), cardiopulmonary events (4. vs 3.; p=0.7), wound complications (p=0.78), superficial (p=0.86) and deep infections (p=0.08) were similar between COVID+ and COVID patients, respectively. Patients that had TJA within 90 days of a positive test had a significantly higher rate of VTE (22. vs 0.; p< 0.001), cardiopulmonary complications (88. vs 0.; p< 0.001) and visits to the ED (88. vs 6.; p< 0.001). Severity of infection data was available on 43 patients. Of these 3.6 % were asymptomatic, 11. were symptomatic, and 4. were hospitalized; outcomes among these were not different. Conclusion: COVID positive patients at a mean time of 8 months from positive test result had similar VTE and cardiopulmonary complications compared to COVID negative patients. However, rates of VTE, cardiopulmonary complications and visits to ED were higher in COVID+ patients that underwent TJA within 90 days of positive test result.NotesPaper #9Timing of Elective Total Joint Arthroplasty Following the COVID 19 InfectionDavid Novikov, MD, Nicholas J. Ogrinc, BA, Tucker Berk, BS, Noelle Wojciechowski, BA, Hannah J. Szapary, BS, Alexander R. Farid, BA, Afshin A. Anoushiravani, MD, Antonia F. Chen, MD, MBA, Michael S. Kain, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program26Introduction: Hyponatremia is a common electrolyte abnormality in arthroplasty patients. However, these values are often overlooked by surgeons. There is currently a lack of institutional data evaluating the implications of sodium disturbances following TJA. This study aimed to (1) report the incidence of hyponatremia, and (2) examine the impact of postoperative hyponatremia as well as the change in sodium levels on the perioperative course of arthroplasty patients.Methods: This was a retrospective analysis of 3,071 primary and revision TJAs performed at a single institution between 2015 and 2017. Patients with at least one preoperative and postoperative serum sodium measurement were included. Based on preoperative and postoperative sodium values (pre post), patients were classified into four groups: normonatremic normonatremic (Group 1), normonatremic hyponatremic (Group 2), hyponatremic normonatremic (Group 3), and hyponatremic hyponatremic (Group 4). Primary endpoints were length of stay (LOS), non home discharge, 90 day complications and readmissions.Results: The distribution of cases was: Group 1 (84.), Group 2 (9.), Group 3 (2.) and Group 4 (3.). Overall, 13. developed hyponatremia after TJA. Older age, hip arthroplasty, revision surgery, general anesthesia, Charlson Comorbidity Index, history of stroke, congestive heart failure, liver disease and chronic kidney disease were risk factors for postoperative hyponatremia. Mortality rate was 2. in Group 4 compared to in the other groups (p< 0.001). Patients with postoperative hyponatremia (Group 2 and 4) had a greater likelihood of having a 90 day complication, non home discharge and greater LOS. Similarly, a greater decrease in sodium level was also associated with poorer perioperative outcomes.Conclusion: Postoperative hyponatremia was a relatively common occurrence in patients undergoing TJA, and was associated with increased complications, LOS and non home discharge. Surgeons should identify patients at risk of developing sodium abnormalities in order to optimize these patients and avoid increased resource utilization.NotesPaper #10Hyponatremia is An Overlooked Sign of Trouble Following TJAColin M. Baker, BS, Graham S. Goh, MD, Saad Tarabichi, MD, Matthew Sherman, BS, Javad Parvizi, MD, FRCS www.AAHKS.org/Meeting27Introduction: Direct anterior approach (DAA) total hip arthroplasty (THA) has been associated with higher rates of superficial incisional dehiscence following surgery. However, limited data is available regarding outcomes following initial treatment of this complication. This study aimed to evaluate patient risk factors, repeat reoperations and survivorship free from any revision in those who develop superficial wound dehiscence following DAA THA.Methods: We identified 3687 patients who underwent a primary DAA THA between 2010 2019 from our institutional total joint registry. Of these, 98 (2.) patients developed a superficial wound dehiscence requiring intervention [irrigation and debridement (I&D; n=40, 1.) or wound care with or without antibiotics (n=58, 1.)]. Dehiscence was noted at median 27 (range 2 105) days. These patients were compared to patients who did not have a superficial wound complication (n=3589). Landmark Kaplan Meier survivorship analysis was performed to account for immortal time bias with a 45 day landmark time. Mean follow up was 4 years. Results: Patients with superficial wound dehiscence compared to those without, respectively, were more often female ( vs. , p=0.018), had increased mean body mass index (BMI; 34 vs. 28 kg/m2, p< 0.001), and had higher American Society of Anesthesiologist scores (ASA 3; vs. , p=0.006). There were 3 (3.) non revision re reoperations (index I&Ds excluded): 2 repeat superficial I&Ds and 1 iliopsoas tendon release. There was no difference in 4 year survivorship free from any revision in those with superficial dehiscence compared to those without ( vs. , respectively, p=0.1). There were 2 (2.) revisions in the superficial dehiscence group: 1 for periprosthetic joint infection (PJI) and 1 for aseptic femoral loosening. Conclusion: Superficial wound dehiscence following DAA THA was associated with female sex, higher BMI, and increased comorbid status. Fortunately, with proper index management, the risk of revision THA and PJI was not increased for these patients.Notes Paper #11The Fate of the Patient with Superficial Dehiscence Following Direct Anterior Total Hip ArthroplastyJacob M. Wilson, MD, Matthew L. Hadley, MD, Cameron K. Ledford, MD, Joshua S. Bingham, MD, Michael J. Taunton, MD 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program28Introduction: Fragility fractures (FFs) are common in the United States, affecting over 1.5 million Americans annually. Fragility fractures are pathognomonic for osteoporosis, yet osteoporosis is often undertreated. Many patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA) have a history of FF. However, only a few studies have examined FFs impact on outcomes after THA patients. The purpose of this study was to characterize the effects of prior FF on the incidence of secondary FF following THA, periprosthetic fractures (PPF), and revision THA (rTHA).Methods: Patients older than 49 who underwent THA for osteoarthritis were identified in the PearlDiver Database. Patients were stratified based on whether they sustained a FF within three years of THA. Univariate analysis was conducted on demographic characteristics, comorbidities, and postoperative outcomes using Pearson chi square analysis. Patients were followed for as long as data were available, with a maximum follow up of 10 years. If a postoperative outcome was significant on univariate analysis (p< 0.05), a multivariable analysis using Cox proportional hazard's model was conducted to adjust for other potential risk factors. In order to determine such factors, demographics and comorbidities with p values < 0.2 were included in the multivariable analysis. Results: In total, 6,181 patients who underwent THA had a prior FF and 179,074 did not. Univariate analysis demonstrated that patients with prior FF had higher incidences of secondary FF, PPF and rTHA (p< 0.001). After adjusting for risk factors, Cox proportional hazard's model demonstrated that patients with prior FF had higher risks of rTHA (HR 1.32; p< 0.001), secondary FF (HR 3.54; p< 0.001), and PPF (HR 1.42; p< 0.001).Conclusion: Recent FF before THA is associated with an increased postoperative risk for rTHA, PPF and secondary FF. It is thus important to educate patients about the increased risks of these potential complications.NotesPaper #12Impact of Prior Fragility Fractures on Complications After Total Hip ArthroplastyAmy Zhao, BA, Amil R. Agarwal, BA, Alex Gu, MD, Jordan S. Cohen, MD, Rachel Ranson, DO, MS, Gregory J. Golladay, MD, Savyasachi C. Thakkar, MD 29www.AAHKS.org/MeetingIntroduction: Periprosthetic fractures (PPFx) account for of early revisions following total hip arthroplasty (THA). Cemented femoral fixation is associated with lower risk of PPFx, and collared, cementless stem may reduce risk of PPFx as well. The objective of this study was to compare early PPFx rates between cemented, collared and non collared cementless stems in elderly patients. Methods: A consecutive series of 11,522 primary THAs performed between 2016 2021 at our institution in patients >65 years old was identified. Stem types used were categorized as cemented, collared cementless or non collared cementless. Patients undergoing THA with cemented stems were older, more commonly female and more likely to have a posterior approach. In order to reduce confounding of patient characteristics, we matched patients in the 3 stem categories according to age, sex and BMI. This generated 3 groups (cemented, collared cementless and non collared cementless) consisting of 936 patients per group. Mean age of these 2,808 patients was 73 years, mean BMI was 27 and were female. Logistic regression was used to evaluate the odds for early PPFx per stem type. Results: In the entire cohort of primary THA in elderly patients over the study period there were 86 early PPFx (0.). After matching according to age, sex and BMI, non collared cementless stems were associated with increased risk of early PPFx (OR: 2.89; p=0.022) compared to collared cementless stems. There were 0 early PPFx in the matched cemented cohort, 6 early PPFx in the matched collared cementless cohort and 18 early PPFx in the matched non collared cementless cohort ( vs 0. vs 1., p< 0.001). Conclusion: In this large series of elderly patients undergoing primary THA, cemented stem fixation produced lowest incidence of early PPFx, but collared cementless femoral stems had a 3 fold decrease in risk for early PPFx compared to collarless cementless femoral stems.NotesPaper #13How Much Protection Does a Collar Provide? Risk of Early PPFx Following THA in Elderly PatientsSamuel Rodriguez, MD, Simarjeet Puri, BS, Jennifer Bido, MD, Austin C. Kaidi, MD, MSc, Jose A. Rodriguez, MD, Elizabeth B. Gausden, MD, MPH2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program30There is clear history and continued emerging evidence from large studies and registry data supporting the use for cemented femoral stem fixation in hemiarthroplasty and total hip arthroplasty. This includes dramatically lower risk of periprosthetic fractures, reduced overall revision risk and improved functional outcomes in certain patient populations. Yet despite this overwhelming data, cemented stem fixation continues to be utilized in less than of all elective THA in the United States. This is posited to be for several reasons including time and unfamiliarity with the advantages as well as the surgical technique. This symposium will bring together faculty from the US and the UK to address all of these issues and will discuss the history of cement and cemented stem fixation, current indications and advantages as well as surgical techniques.Learning Objectives:1.Review the risk stratification and mitigation of femoral stem fixation and periprosthetic fracture. 2.Gain a better understanding of cement fixation and design history. 3.Elucidate the pros and cons for cemented stem fixation.4.Discuss and review the surgical technique of cemented stem fixation.Outline:Introduction Bryan D. Springer, MDPeriprosthetic Fractures: Registry Data and Risk Stratification Bryan D. Springer, MDCemented Stems: History, Design and Outcomes Matthew J.W. Hubble, FRCSCemented Femoral Stems: What Are the Potential Wins? Jonathan R. Howell, FRCS Cemented Stems: How to Get It Right, Surgical Technique Joseph T. Moskal, MD Discussion All Faculty NotesSymposium IIICemented Femoral Stem Fixation: Back to the Future Moderator: Bryan D. Springer, MD Faculty: Joseph T. Moskal, MD, Jonathan R. Howell, FRCS, Matthew J.W. Hubble, FRCS www.AAHKS.org/Meeting31Introduction: Accurately predicting an arthroplasty patient's postoperative physical function and associated discharge disposition and length of stay is helpful because it allows for preoperative patient optimization, planning, expectation management and a rational allocation of hospital resources. The goal of this study was to determine the capability of the Risk Assessment and Prediction Tool (RAPT) score to predict perioperative function, discharge destination and length of stay in patients undergoing primary THA and TKA. Methods: : Primary unilateral THAs (n=12,270) and TKAs (n=13,043) performed for primary osteoarthritis at our institution from 2018 2021 (excluding March September 2020) were identified using a validated and prospectively maintained database (mean age 65.4; 59. female). We sought to evaluate the associations between preoperative RAPT score and (1) postoperative Activity Measure for Post Acute Care (AM PAC) “6 Clicks” score (2) time to first ambulation, (3) discharge destination and (4) in hospital length of stay, using univariate analysis. Results: RAPT score was inversely associated with AM PAC score among TKA (r=0.38; p< 0.0001) and THA patients (r=0.34; p< 0.001). RAPT score was inversely associated with time to first ambulation in TKA (r= 0.12; p< 0.001) and THA (r= 0.17; p< 0.001). RAPT score was inversely associated with length of stay in TKA (r= 0.36; p< 0.001) and THA (r= 0.38; p< 0.001). RAPT score was significantly higher among patients discharged home compared to patients discharged to an acute or subacute rehabilitation facility in TKA (9.8+/ 1.7 vs. 7.0+/ 2.3; p< 0.001) and THA (9.8+/ 1.8 vs. 6.3+/ 2.3; p< 0.001). Conclusion: RAPT score may be helpful for predicting in hospital course and discharge destination following TKA and THA. In this large retrospective single institution study, higher preoperative RAPT scores were associated with faster postoperative mobilization, improved postoperative physical function, decreased length of stay and discharge to home. Further research should evaluate how psychological and social support factors affect this relationship.NotesPaper #14RAPT Score Predicts Postoperative Function, Length of Stay and Discharge Destination After TKA/THADrake G. Lebrun, MD, Charles M. Fisher, PT, Sharlynn Tuohy, PT, Joseph T. Nguyen, MPH, Alejandro G. Della Valle, MD, Michael P. Ast, MD, Alberto V. Carli, MD, FRCSC 2022 AAHKS Annual Meeting | Final Program32Introduction: Multiple authors have sought to determine what patient characteristics influence outcome after TKA. Age has shown no effect on outcome in some evaluations, while others reported higher functional improvement in younger patients. The aim of this study was to determine if outcome after TKA varies based on patient age. Methods: A prospective, multi center cohort of 11,602 unilateral primary TKA patients was evaluated. PROMs including KOOS(12,JR) were collected pre op and one year postop. Descriptive statistics were stratified by age [<55 years (younger adult), 55 64 years (older adult), 65 74 years (early elder), and ≥75 years (late elder)], and differences in pain, function and QoL among the four age groups evaluated. Multivariate regression model was used to assess the role of patient age as a predictive factor for KOOS scores reported after TKA, while adjusting other variables.Results: Before surgery, patients <55 years reported worse pain, function, and QoL than older patients. One year after TKA, younger patients <55 years reported worse pain, function, and QoL quality of life but better function than older patients (≥75 years). Differences in mean one year scores among the 4 age groups reached the MCID for pain and QoL, but not for function. Younger patients (<55 years) achieved pain (36.8 points), function (30.3 points), and quality of life (40.7 points) improvements from baseline that were comparable to other groups. Regression analysis showed that age was predictive of KOOS pain (P< 0.001) in older patients (≥75 years), when compared to younger patients (<55 years). Age was not predictive of KOOS ADL (p=0.74) in older patients (≥75 years).Conclusion: Large improvements of PROMs were reported 1 year after TKA across all four age groups. Age related differences in pain and QoL exist as patients ≥75 years achieved better pain relief and improved QoL when compared to patients <55 years.NotesPaper #15Age Related Differences in Pain, Function and Quality of Life Following Primary TKADavid C. Ayers, MD, Mohamed Yousef, MD, PhD, Wenyun Yang, MS, Hua Zheng, PhD www.AAHKS.org/Meeting33Introduction: Multiple national database reports have shown higher cumulative percent revision (CPR) and decreased long term survivorship of uncemented TKAs. Despite this finding, uncemented TKAs have increased in popularity particularly with the introduction of new press fit technologies that have shown promising initial results. A state wide quality improvement registry was used to analyze the effect of this fixation shift on outcomes in Michigan. Methods: Data from 2017 through 2019 was analyzed to determine the incidence, distribution, and survival outcomes of cemented vs. uncemented TKAs. CPR was calculated yearly based on fixation method (cemented vs uncemented), including the patella. The primary endpoint was time to first revision using Kaplan Meier survival