acute COVID—for example, whether it is caused by a breakdown of the blood–brain barrier. How do you hope this data will help inform treatment strategies going forward in patients with COVID-associated neurological sequelae? “The rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms.” We found that when physicians took a holistic approach to patient management, including addressing neuropsychiatric symptoms of anxiety, depression, and fatigue along with headache and cognitive symptoms, that most patients reported substantial improvement in symptoms. As we try to fine-tune therapies and develop cognitive rehabilitation programs, the rich data we collect can help to better stratify patients according to the particular pathway behind their symptoms. As studies are developed from the databases, we are hopeful that emerging insights will help us better target interventions for these patients. Unraveling Glial Contributions to Alzheimer’s Disease Research has established that non-neuronal cells of the central nervous system , notably glia, are important contributors to Alzheimer’s disease (AD) pathogenesis , which includes changes in normal physiological functions, including synapse maintenance, metabolism, structural support, and blood-brain barrier integrity. Reactive astrocytes induced by immune cell dysfunction and inflammatory responses to pathogenic proteins and dying cells have been implicated in several of these processes. In addition, oligodendrocytes are also of interest in AD pathogenesis given their role in myelin production and axon support required for optimum brain function. It is not yet clear, however, how subtypes of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes are altered in AD. Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology , leads a research team that is using advanced methods including single-nuclei RNA sequencing (snRNA-seq) and spatial transcriptomics to assess putative functional heterogeneity in glia during AD. A Novel snRNA-seq Dataset In a recent study published in Neuron, the team presented a snRNA-seq dataset characterizing astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from human postmortem prefrontal cortex samples from AD and age-matched non-symptomatic patients, with all individuals genotyped and controlled for apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype Ɛ2/3. APOE is a major risk factor for AD, Dr. Liddelow explains. “Patients with APOE Ɛ4 are up to 17 times more likely to develop the disease.” “We chose this patient population as it is underrepresented in other sequencing studies and individuals present with AD dementia onset at later ages, making age matching between non-symptomatic and AD patients more similar.” Dr. Liddelow and his team identified global and subtype-specific transcriptomic changes between astrocytes and oligodendrocytes isolated from patients with AD versus those from non-symptomatic patients. In addition, they localized heterogeneous astrocyte subtypes to specific cortical regions in the healthy and inflamed brain using published human and mouse spatial transcriptomics datasets. “We identified unique and previously undefinable astrocyte subpopulations in all of our datasets,” Dr. Liddelow says. A Resource for Further Research These data, which are freely available to all researchers on an online portal, were also integrated with published AD snRNA-seq datasets. Dr. Liddelow hopes these combined datasets will provide a paired sequencing and pathology assessment resource that can be used to further explore the breadth of astrocyte and oligodendrocyte transcriptomic changes in AD. However, while integration with published datasets highlight novel and putative functional populations of glia in AD, future studies will be required to evaluate these subpopulations and their potential for therapeutic modulation. “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions.” “We hope that continued integration of our data with future snRNA-seq and spatial datasets will add greater insight to these and many new questions in AD,” says Dr. Liddelow. Neuroscience, Ophthalmology Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, is an assistant professor in the Neuroscience Institute and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. His research centers around the role of astrocytes in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. High COVID-19 Antibody Levels in Newborns of Women Vaccinated During Pregnancy In a study of newborns of mothers vaccinated against COVID-19 during pregnancy, 36 cord blood samples were tested, and 100 percent showed transplacental antibody transfer and 34 samples had a titer of more than 250 units/mL. ADAPTED FROM: Am J Obstet Gynecol MFM . 2021 Nov; 3(6): 100481. No increase in risk was identified for mother or baby during pregnancy or birth among those who were vaccinated, consistent with other reports . The findings offer possible encouragement for increased vaccine adoption among pregnant mothers seeking to protect themselves and their babies during the first months of life. A study published in the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology – Maternal-Fetal Medicine found protective antibodies in the cord blood of all 36 participant neonates whose mothers received either the Pfizer–BioNTech or Moderna vaccine during pregnancy. Study design distinguished between antibodies associated with natural infection or vaccination. The highest levels were observed among newborns whose mothers were vaccinated during the second half of pregnancy. “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies.” “Studies continue to reinforce the importance of vaccines in preventing severe illness in both mothers and babies,” says , Silverman Professor in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, and a principal investigator. “If babies are born with antibodies, it could protect them early-on, when they are most vulnerable.” Positive Outcomes for In-Office Needle Arthroscopy in Treating Anterior Ankle Impingement Compared with traditional arthroscopic procedures, NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) confers multiple benefits, including no general anesthetic, 2 incisions of 2 millimeters allow for immediate mobilization, superior median time-to-return for work and sports activities, decrease in PROMIS pain intensity T scores, high foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS), low complication rate, and high patient satisfaction. Source: Arthroscopy NanoScope in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA) recovery outcomes include a median time-to-return to work of 1.98 days (for all patients who previously worked) and to sports activities of 3.9 weeks (for 26 of 27 patients who had previously played sports). Foot and ankle outcome scores (FAOS) measurements at final follow-up were 79.4 ± 11.9 for symptoms, 82.9 ± 15.3 for pain, 83.5 ± 15.4 for daily activities, 71.9 ± 18.5 for sports activities, and 64.3 ± 21.4 for quality of life. Source: Patients with anterior ankle impingement often require surgical resection of bony spurs and soft tissue impingement, traditionally achieved via open or arthroscopic anterior ankle debridement in an OR. Building on older designs of an alternative known as in-office needle arthroscopy (IONA), , and colleagues at NYU Langone Health have pioneered a minimally invasive nano-arthroscopy system (the NanoScope™ system). In a new study, , Dr. Kennedy’s team and collaborators in the Netherlands evaluated the clinical outcomes and patient experience of 31 athletic individuals who underwent the IONA procedure for an anterior ankle impingement. They found that all patients who had worked prior to the IONA procedure returned to work, and 26 of 27 patients returned to their sports activities. These results are far superior to those from open or traditional arthroscopic procedures. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist.” Overall, the IONA alternative resulted in significant pain reduction, a low complication rate, and excellent patient-reported outcomes. “I think we are heading toward a time when visiting an orthopedic surgeon will be more like visiting your dentist—you’ll go in for a small procedure under local anesthetic and expect to leave on the same day,” Dr. Kennedy says. Dr. Kennedy has received support from the Ohnell Family Foundation and Mr. and Mrs. Michael J. Levitt; he is also a consultant for Arteriocyte Industries (Isto Biologics) and Arthrex®, which produces the NanoScope™. More Evidence that EFCT Improves Cesarean Outcomes Women who undergo a cesarean delivery with the endometrium-free uterine closure technique (EFCT) to close the incision are more likely to heal with small to no residual uterine scar defect than those with a routine closure, according to a new study in the Journal of Ultrasound in Medicine “In pregnant women, uterine scarring can lead to abnormal implantation or attachment of the placenta, known as placenta accreta, and cause life-threatening conditions and severe blood loss,” says Clarel Antoine, MD , lead author and a pioneer in the EFCT for cesarean births. “In non-pregnant women, uterine scars can cause other issues including irregular vaginal bleeding, severe menstrual cramps, painful intercourse, and infertility.” The study compared the prevalence and size of post-cesarean scar defects following the EFCT versus a routine closure technique using saline infusion sonohysterography. The researchers evaluated 45 women with a history of at least one cesarean delivery. They found uterine scar development was six times higher with a routine uterine closure compared to births with EFCT. Building Upon Previous Findings In 2019, Dr. Antoine and his colleagues published a study in the Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine showing that none of 727 patients treated with the EFCT during the surgical closure of the uterus experienced placenta accreta in their cesarean scars. The sample included patients with up to nine consecutive cesarean deliveries and outcomes were positive regardless of the number of repeat cesarean deliveries a person had. “This showed the exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries,” says Dr. Antoine. “The exclusion of the endometrium during the EFCT was associated with fewer placental abnormalities in subsequent pregnancies and reduced life-threatening maternal morbidity for future cesarean deliveries.” Looking Ahead The latest study further confirms that the EFCT enables restoration of normal anatomy and physiology after cesarean delivery. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed, which can reduce severe maternal complications and save the lives of mothers nationally,” says senior author Ilan E. Timor, MD , an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. “These findings should have a major impact on the way cesarean deliveries are currently performed.” “Over the years, I’ve examined uterine scars using saline infusion sonohysterography. It’s interesting to see with this study that the patients with an EFCT closure had significantly smaller or even no residual scarring at the site of the incision.” Currently, the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists does not endorse any particular method of closing the uterus after a cesarean delivery. Dr. Antoine and his team hopes this study could inform a rethinking of the current recommendations. Clarel Antoine, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology. His research focuses on cesarean delivery, including the development of new surgical techniques to better maternal outcomes. Dr. Antoine is leading the first long-term study utilizing advanced imaging to identify intrinsic surgical details that may help characterize post-cesarean long-term complications. Ilan E. Timor, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology. He is an internationally recognized expert in obstetric and gynecologic ultrasonography. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Including the Optic Nerve Could Boost Early MS Diagnosis Ushering Neurology into a New Era of Collaboration Shane A. Liddelow, PhD, and Un Jung Kang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary was launched in 2021 with a unique vision to foster new collaborative models not just within neurology, but across all discliplines conducting basic science and clinical research that can help to illuminate the common mechanisms underlying neurodegenerative disorders.The center’s co-directors are Shane A. Liddelow, PhD , an assistant professor of neuroscience and physiology, and Un Jung Kang , the Founders Professor of Neurology and director of translational research at the Marlene Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders . Here, they discuss how their different footholds in basic research and clinical practice, as well as the ambitious multidisciplinary partnerships they are forging across NYU Langone, are driving the center’s successful growth. Recasting the Mold for Neurologic Research What is your long-term vision for the center and how is it a different way of thinking? Dr. Liddelow: Our vision is to integrate all relevant disciplines and departments across NYU Langone to further enable collaborative research teams to tackle ever more complex disease-focused questions. With over 250 research laboratories on campus, the goal of achieving harmonized, cross-discipline collaboration is a large undertaking. Many of these diseases represent cohorts of patients with no current effective therapies, or with rare diseases that may affect only a handful of patients across the globe. As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential. It is for this reason that our starting focus is on glia and the immune system—uncovering the common responses or dysfunctions that occur across seemingly disconnected diseases. Dr. Kang: An important aspect of our center is how it integrates basic science with clinical knowledge. In particular, we want to understand how the brain interacts with the body and how neurons interact with non-neuronal cells. “As neuroscience discoveries continue to accelerate, we recognize that understanding the interaction of non-neuronal systems in relation to the changes that occur within the brain is essential.” How do you define interdisciplinary neurology, then? Classically, the field of neurology evolved from describing manifestations of abnormal brain function to understanding underlying neuropathology. Today, our subspecialities are still divided along phenomenological boundaries. Now we know that many seemingly disparate neurological disorders may share a common molecular etiology.  For example, in addition to being a movement disorders or a sleep disorders specialist focused on understanding symptoms, we need to understand abnormalities in alpha-synuclein, a presynaptic neuronal protein that is linked to both problems and develop therapies that can treat both. A New Research Platform What are a few notable projects already underway or in planning through the center? The center’s work will focus initially on four main research projects , one of which is a project I’m leading on the role of astrocyte-derived toxic lipids in neurodegenerative disease . We recently identified a reactive astrocyte subtype that forms after acute injuries and in chronic neurodegeneration in both rodents and humans. We show these astrocytes to be potently neurotoxic and that saturated lipids, in particular long-chain free fatty acids, drive this neurotoxicity and are investigating how a lack of neurotoxic lipids can preserve neuron health in models of chronic neurodegeneration. For that project, our long-term goal is to define pathways in neurotoxic reactive astrocytes and susceptible neuron populations that will provide a blueprint to develop novel therapeutic strategies for a range of neurodegenerative diseases like amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and glaucoma. Other projects encompass the measurement of intra-patient variability using technological approaches, with a focus on multiple sclerosis, and and the integration of changes in the microbiome and brain function in patients with epilepsy. A project spearheaded by Dr. Kang’s research group is focused on changes in glia during multiple system atrophy —a rare neurodegenerative disorder that affects autonomic functions. The project in my laboratory attempts to understand how abnormal oligodendrocytes produce neuronal degeneration in multiple system atrophy by studying molecular changes of frozen postmortem human brain at the single-cell level. We examine alpha-synuclein abnormalities as a driving factor of neurodegeneration in various related diseases.  As Dr. Liddelow previously described, an epilepsy expert is building a framework for how the gut microbiome, peripheral immune system, and the central nervous system interact before and after seizure. We hypothesize that such mechanisms are also likely to exist in other neurological disorders.  In another main project, a multiple sclerosis researcher is examining subtle physiological changes in prodromal stages of multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease. Since future disease modifying therapies will be most effective in early prodomal stages, developing early detection and prediction methods is critical. We are also hosting a request for applications for pilot grants open to all research faculty at NYU Langone to encourage cross-disciplinary projects from a team of clinical and basic researchers, with an emphasis on early career researchers. Anticipating a Ripple Effect Looking ahead, what other opportunities or potential impacts do you envision for the center’s work? Improving communication between internal research groups is a key opportunity for the center. Researchers may be working on the same problem, but are unaware due to a lack of time or knowledge of exciting discoveries. The center will continue to develop as a platform for increasing communication between researchers. In addition, we hope the center will foster data democratization beyond NYU Langone. We plan to make research data available more broadly through publicaly accessible databases. We are also looking at new means of disseminating research, such as leveraging social media. We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians. At the heart of improving education for both basic science and clinical trainees is to increase their exposure to different disciplines. Having PhD students shadow a neurologist and clinical fellows spend time in a research lab can only help foster more collaboration. “We are also excited about the generational impact of interdisciplinary neurology in training future cohorts of researchers and clinicians.” Un Jung Kang, MD Un Jung Kang, MD, is the Founders Professor of Neurology, a professor of neuroscience and physiology, director of translational research at the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders, and co-director of the Parekh Center for Interdisciplinary Neurology. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition Dr. Seth Cohen discusses how he diagnosed the disease in a patient with penile pain and a cord-like structure. Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation: Examining a Case from the Five-Year Outcomes Study Repeat Biopsy Helps Catch Cancer in Patients with Suspicious Prostate Lesions All 36 men (38 ROIs) enrolled to the study with PI-RADS 4/5 ROI and no clinically significant prostate cancer (csPA) on initial biopsy underwent repeat MRI, following which 14 ROIs were downgraded while 24 ROIs remained suspicious. Of the 20 ROIs that underwent repeat biopsy, 30% were benign, 30% were Gleason grade group (GGG) 1, and 40% were GGG ≥ 2. ADAPTED FROM: Can Urol Assoc J . 2022;16(12):418-422. Men with PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI but no evidence of clinically significant prostate cancer defined as any Gleason pattern 4 disease following an initial biopsy should undergo early repeat MRI, and potentially repeat biopsy. That is the conclusion from a recent prospective study from investigators at NYU Langone Health, which reports that repeat biopsy has a clinically significant cancer detection rate of 40 percent. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Canadian Urological Association Journal , the study evaluated 36 men with at least one PI-RADS 4 or 5 ROI and no clinically significant cancer on prior MRI fusion target biopsy plus systemic biopsy. All patients underwent repeat MRI, which led to 14 ROIs being downgraded to PI-RADS 1 or 2. A total of 20 ROIs remained suspicious following repeat MRI and were subjected to repeat targeted and systematic biopsy, with eight ultimately found to harbor clinically significant cancer. All repeat biopsies were completed within one year of the initial biopsy, suggesting that the detection of prostate cancer can be attributed to sampling error rather than disease progression. The investigators also report that a high baseline level of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) may serve as a predictor of finding cancer on repeat biopsy. “Our study supports a recommendation for early repeat biopsy for patients with PI-RADS 4 or 5 exhibiting no clinically significant cancer on initial biopsy who have persistently suspicious PI-RADS greater than 2 ROI,” says urologic oncologist , senior author of the study. “This diagnostic strategy will decrease false negative biopsies in men presenting with high risk of harboring clinically significant disease.” Metabolic Enzymes Mark New Targets in Bladder Cancer By detailing the essential roles of metabolic enzymes in bladder cancer, researchers at NYU Langone Health and have identified novel therapeutic strategies that may help in overcoming cisplatin resistance. The innovative approaches take aim at two glycolytic enzymes—enolase-1 and PKM2—shown to promote tumor growth by enhancing the functions of oncogenes. “In almost every bladder tumor type, we find both of these enzymes are over-expressed,” says Xue-Ru Wu, MD , principal investigator of the research team and the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation. Preliminary data also indicate both enzymes are induced by cisplatin, suggesting a role in acquired resistance. “If we take cells grown in culture, expose them to increasing concentrations of cisplatin, and then look at these enzymes, they’re markedly induced,” says Dr. Wu. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles. Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Efforts are now underway to identify and test inhibitors that can be used in combination with cisplatin and other chemotherapies. Metabolism and Malignancy Reprogrammed metabolism is a hallmark of cancer . While healthy cells rely heavily on oxidative phosphorylation, cancer cells commonly switch to aerobic glycolysis to fuel their uncontrolled growth. Yet, “bladder cancer metabolism is an area that people have paid relatively little attention to,” says Dr. Wu. In studying the process, his team discovered that some glycolytic enzymes not only prop up the proliferative metabolism of bladder cancer cells but also moonlight as oncogenes by tempering the normal function of tumor suppressors. This was demonstrated in a 2021 report from his group in , which revealed that enolase-1, a main glycolytic enzyme, functionally disables CDK inhibitors 4 and 6, leaving cell cycle progression unchecked. A subsequent study from the group in reported that PKM2, another key glycolytic enzyme, enhances angiogenesis by augmenting the angiogenic factor STAT3. “We show that the two enzymes play different roles,” says Dr. Wu. “Enolase-1 can drive tumor initiation while PKM2 supports tumor promotion.” Overcoming Cisplatin Resistance The next step is to identify inhibitors of the enzymes, which Dr. Wu and colleagues are pursuing by repurposing existing drugs and by screening for new agents. Pairing these inhibitors with cisplatin-based chemotherapies may serve to address resistance and improve treatment efficacy, all while minimizing treatment-associated toxicities. According to Dr. Wu, similar ideas are being tested in other cancer types, but little focus has been placed on bladder cancer. “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive. It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” “Utilizing the tumor cell’s metabolic bypass to overcome chemotherapy-based treatment resistance is very attractive,” says Dr. Wu. While it’s common to address resistance by increasing the dosage of the chemotherapy being used or by pairing it with a second chemotherapy, he stresses this usually comes with increased toxicity. “It’s preferable that you target a pathway that’s different from those targeted by existing therapeutics, and this approach does just that.” NIH and VA Support Funding for the work comes from a multimillion-dollar NIH Program Project (P01) grant supporting innovative bladder cancer research in the laboratories of Dr. Wu and colleagues Diane M. Simeone, MD, and Moon-Shong Tang, PhD . Initially awarded in 2013, the grant is in its second funding cycle. “The key focus of this grant is to look at how the different bladder cancer subtypes arise and progress to inform biomarkers and therapeutics,” says Dr. Wu. Dr. Wu’s research has also been funded by the VA Health Services Research and Development Service. “In 2023, it’s estimated that 82,000 new cases of bladder cancer will be diagnosed,” he adds. “It’s a lifelong disease, it’s highly recurrent, and it’s extremely under-studied. While we have immunotherapy, only about 25 percent of patients respond. For the remaining 75 percent of patients with muscle-invasive disease that doesn’t respond, we need to treat them differently.” Urology, Cancer Xue-Ru Wu, MD, is the Bruce and Cynthia Sherman Professor of Urological Research and Innovation and a professor of pathology. His research focuses on the molecular pathogenesis of bladder disease. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies Perlmutter Cancer Center director and co-creator of the HapImmune platform discusses the technology’s potential. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk In a phase 2 trial, pairing an mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab improved relapse-free survival in advanced melanoma. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Patient’s decision to forego radical cystectomy exemplifies opportunity to expand TMT as a treatment option. AI Improves Breast Cancer Detection Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy Research test developed at Perlmutter Cancer Center pinpoints changes in a newly identified autoantibody panel. Building International Bridges in Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Research Dr. Andrew S. Feigin and NYU Langone colleague Dr. Un Jung Kang. PHOTO: NYU Langone Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders at NYU Langone Health houses a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at caring for people with Parkinson’s disease (PD) and other movement disorders. Additionally, the institute maintains a unique scientific and clinical collaboration with the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Italy and other centers in the Fresco Parkinson’s Network in Europe.From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with Andrew S. Feigin, MD , executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, to discuss the institute’s work, key issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment, and the value of international collaboration From June 7-10, 2022, the Fresco Parkinson Institute hosted the Fresco International Workshop on Synaptic Plasticity and Advances in Parkinson’s Disease in Florence, Italy. In advance of the workshop, Physician Focus met with As executive director of the Fresco Institute at NYU Langone, could you elaborate on your role, the work of the institute here and its connections to the Fresco Parkinson Institute in Florence? Dr. Feigin : I like to describe the work we do in the Fresco Institute as addressing three important areas of endeavor. The first is that we seek to provide the best multidisciplinary clinical care for patients with Parkinson’s disease and related movement disorders. We also focus on research to improve the care that we can deliver in the future. Ultimately, the goal of our research, in both clinical and basic science, is to find better therapies that can help people with these disorders. The third area we focus on is education and training. We’re involved in training medical students, residents, and fellows, so we’re preparing future leaders for providing the best care and doing research for the coming generations. The centers in Italy and Europe provide the same, and our training is enhanced by our interactions with these centers. Key Issues in Movement Disorders What current issues in PD and movement disorders research and treatment is the institute focused on addressing? : One critical area is the genetic contribution to the causes of Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. We work on identifying novel genetic contributors to these diseases and how we might utilize these genetic markers to better understand their etiology and get clues to better treatments for those carrying these mutations. Many of us here at NYU Langone and at the other centers are working on identifying better ways of diagnosing Parkinson’s disease and following its progression through imaging and other kinds of biomarkers. There’s also a big movement to predict who is at risk for Parkinson’s, so that if there are disease-modifying therapies in the future we can potentially get these therapies even earlier to those who need them. Benefits of International Collaboration Why is the type of international collaboration fostered through the Fresco Institute essential to advancing research and clinical care for these diseases? r. Feigin : The world has become a smaller place in the last 10 to 20 years, to a large degree because of technology. We want to be able to tap the best minds and the best work that’s being done everywhere. NYU Langone has an amazingly deep tradition and well of expertise that’s relevant to neurodegenerative diseases. However, my work with the institute has expanded my horizons and permitted me to interact with people that I might not otherwise have interacted with—those with different perspectives and different areas of research in Parkinson’s disease and movement disorders. Technology is driving more international collaboration, especially in the response to COVID-19. However, there are still many factors that might complicate partnering across borders. Where do you see the horizons for this type of work going forward? : I’m currently the principal investigator of a large multicenter international clinical trial called PROOF-HD . That trial has 30 sites in Europe and 30 in North America, with different regulatory agencies in basically every country in Europe as well as the FDA in the United States. So yes, there are certainly challenges to doing this type of major international study. However, these challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials. I believe that these types of international collaborations will continue to expand. “These challenges can be overcome, and there’s a lot of interest in overcoming them, especially for diseases that are relatively rare where we need to work with international colleagues to conduct large trials.” The Role of Plasticity in PD Looking ahead to the Fresco International conference in June, the concept of synaptic plasticity and its relationship to PD is a central theme. Why is this concept and the research surrounding it so essential? : Over the past decades, we have begun to gain better understanding of how the adult human brain is able to adjust and modify itself to improve function. Through making new connections and paring back unused connections the brain can remodel functional connections to deal with insults like disease. There’s been an explosion of therapies that seek to promote this kind of plasticity to improve function in people with Parkinson’s disease—for example, exercise programs and art programs Because there’s neuroscientific evidence for why these therapies can be helpful to people, plasticity seems to be a key area of potential therapeutic benefit for patients with Parkinson’s disease and other movement disorders. I think it’s very relevant to have a symposium on this topic to talk about how the brain adjusts to challenges and makes changes, and how we can promote that to benefit our patients. Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders Andrew S. Feigin, MD, is the executive director of the Marlene and Paolo Fresco Institute for Parkinson’s and Movement Disorders and the associate chair for clinical research in the Department of Neurology. He specializes in treating patients with Parkinson’s disease, Huntington’s disease, and related disorders that affect the basal ganglia. Unlocking Success in Blood & Marrow Transplantation Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA , specializes in caring for adults and children undergoing autologous and allogeneic transplant. The program incorporates a wide-ranging suite of clinical, educational, and research programs aimed at providing high-quality care to every patient, regardless of ethnic background or age. met with the program’s executive director, , to discuss recent advances in the field, as well as ongoing initiatives within the program to make blood and marrow transplant available to even more patients. Benefits of Outpatient Transplants We now have the ability to perform transplants on an outpatient basis, with clinical outcomes equivalent to traditional inpatient approaches. What makes outpatient transplants unique? Dr. Al-Homsi: Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients. It provides patients with more flexibility, allowing them to return to the comfort of their home after receiving treatment during the day. “Outpatient transplant is often the most practical, if not the best option, for the majority of eligible patients.” We are fortunate to have a state-of-the-art outpatient center staffed by highly specialized professionals including physicians, nurse practitioners, and social workers. All transplant services, including the collection of stem cells, infusion, and the stem cell processing laboratory are housed within the outpatient center. We have come a long way since the days when patients were admitted to an isolated inpatient unit to receive their transplant. Nevertheless, each patient needs to be extensively evaluated and may not be a good candidate for outpatient care, depending on the circumstances. Age Is No Barrier to Success There has been great progress in expanding access to bone marrow transplants to older adults. What collective advancements have supported this shift? In recent years, transplant has been increasingly used for patients older than 60. There are several reasons for this, including optimized means of determining which older adults will benefit from treatment, the availability of reduced-intensity conditioning regimens, and better supportive care. Taken together, these innovations have expanded the pool of eligible patients well into their 70s. In other words, advanced age does not automatically exclude a patient from receiving a bone marrow transplant, autologous or allogeneic, even in the outpatient setting. A successful transplant for an older adult means preserving their functional independence, improving quality of life, and of course, prolonging survival. Haploidentical Grafts: The Next Frontier Haploidentical transplants have expanded the pool of available donors. What are the benefits of this approach? Many patients who need a transplant cannot find a suitable fully matched donor. The development of half-matched or haploidentical transplant has been a major step forward in extending transplant as an option for patients from certain ethnic and minority groups, who are underrepresented in the donor registries and may not be able to find a fully matched donor. “In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as those with a fully matched donor.” Although haploidentical transplant may be the only option for patients from certain ethnic minorities, recent studies have suggested that the incidence of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) can be higher in patients who received a haploidentical transplant versus fully matched donors. As this is a disparity issue, we have been very active in conducting research to decrease the incidence of GvHD in the setting of haploidentical transplant. , we reported encouraging results using an innovative approach to prevent GvHD in patients undergoing a haploidentical transplant. In our hands, it seems that the outcomes of transplanted patients with a half-matched donor are at least as good as