1 Purpose Following a prostate cancer diagnosis, patients are faced with a multitude of care options, the advisability of which is influenced by patient factors and by cancer severity or aggressiveness. The ability to categorize patients based on cancer aggressiveness is invaluable for facilitating care decisions. Accordingly, these guidelines for the management of localized prostate cancer are structured first, to provide a clinical framework stratified by cancer severity (or risk group) to facilitate care decisions and second, to guide the specifics of implementing the selected management options, including active surveillance, observation/watchful waiting, prostatectomy, radiotherapy, cryosurgery, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) and focal therapy. Secondary or salvage treatment for localized prostate cancer that persists or recurs after primary definitive intervention, and primary treatment of locally advanced/metastatic disease, are outside the scope of these guidelines. The content of these guidelines is formatted as shown in Table 1. Methodology The systematic review utilized in the creation of this guideline was completed in part through the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and through additional supplementation that further addressed additional key questions and more recently published literature. A research librarian experienced in conducting literature searches for comparative effectiveness reviews searched in MEDLINE®, PreMEDLINE, Embase®, the Cochrane Library, the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, the Health Technology Assessment Database, and the UK National Health Service Economic Evaluation database to capture literature published from January 1, 2007 through March 7, 2014. Additional supplemental searches were conducted adding additional literature in August 2015 and August 2016. The AUA categorizes body of evidence strength as Grade A (well conducted and highly generalizable randomized controlled trials [RCTs] or exceptionally strong observational studies with consistent findings), Grade B (RCTs with some weaknesses of procedure or generalizability or moderately strong observational studies with consistent findings), or Grade C (RCTs with serious deficiencies of procedure or generalizability or extremely small sample sizes or observational studies that are inconsistent, have small sample sizes, or have other problems that potentially confound interpretation of data). When sufficient evidence existed, the body of evidence for a particular treatment was assigned a strength rating of A (high), B (moderate) or C (low) for support of Strong, Moderate, or Conditional Recommendations. In the absence of sufficient evidence, additional information is provided as Clinical Principles and Expert Opinions. Approved by the AUA Board of Directors April 2017 Authors’ disclosure of po tential conflicts of interest and author/staff contribu tions appear at the end of the article. © 2017 by the American Urological Association American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) CLINICALLY LOCALIZED PROSTATE CANCER: AUA/ASTRO/SUO GUIDELINE Martin G. Sanda, MD; Ronald C. Chen, MD; Tony Crispino; Stephen Freedland, MD; Kirsten Greene, MD; Laurence H. Klotz, MD; Danil V. Makarov, MD; Joel B. Nelson, MD; James Reston, PhD; George Rodrigues, MD; Howard M. Sandler, MD; Mary Ellen Taplin, MD; Jeffrey A. Cadeddu, MD Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® 2 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Table 1. Localized Prostate Cancer Guidelines Content Section Subtopic Guideline Statements I. Introduction NA A. Guideline Statements B. Methodology C. Risk Stratification II. Shared Decision Making 1 5 III. Care Options by Cancer Severity/Risk Group 6 27 A. Very Low / Low Risk 6 14 B. Intermediate Risk 15 21 C. High Risk 22 27 IV. Recommended Approaches/Details of Specific Care Options 28 60 A. Active Surveillance 28 33 B. Radical Prostatectomy 34 41 C. Radiotherapy 42 49 D. Cryosurgery 50 56 E. HIFU/Focal therapy 57 60 V. Outcome Expectations and Manage ment A. Side effects and HRQOL 61 65 B. Post treatment follow up 66 68 VI. Future Directions NA 3 INTRODUCTION GUIDELINE STATEMENTS SHARED DECISION MAKING (SDM) 1. Counseling of patients to select a management strategy for localized prostate cancer should incorporate shared decision making and explicitly consider cancer severity (risk category), patient values and preferences, life expectancy, pre treatment general functional and genitourinary symptoms, expected post treatment functional status, and potential for salvage treatment. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 2. Prostate cancer patients should be counseled regarding the importance of modifiable health related behaviors or risk factors, such as smoking and obesity. (Expert Opinion) 3. Clinicians should encourage patients to meet with different prostate cancer care specialists (e.g., urology and either radiation oncology or medical oncology or both), when possible to promote informed decision making. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 4. Effective shared decision making in prostate cancer care requires clinicians to inform patients about immediate and long term morbidity or side effects of proposed treatment or care options. (Clinical Principle) 5. Clinicians should inform patients about suitable clinical trials and encourage patients to consider participation in such trials based on eligibility and access. (Expert Opinion) CARE OPTIONS BY CANCER SEVERITY/RISK GROUP Very Low /Low Risk Disease 6. Clinicians should not perform abdomino pelvic CT or routine bone scans in the staging of asymptomatic very low or low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 7. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the best available care option for very low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 8. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the preferable care option for most low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 9. Clinicians may offer definitive treatment (i.e. radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy) to select low risk localized prostate cancer patients who may have a high probability of progression on active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 10. Clinicians should not add ADT along with radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer with the exception of reducing the size of the prostate for brachytherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 11. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that consequent side effects are considerable and survival benefit has not been shown in comparison to active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 12. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) 13. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with low risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 14. Among most low risk localized prostate cancer patients, tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in the selection of candidates for active surveillance. (Expert Opinion) Intermediate Risk Disease 15. Clinicians should consider staging unfavorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Expert Opinion) 16. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) as standard treatment options for patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 17. Clinicians should inform patients that favorable intermediate risk prostate cancer can be treated with radiation American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 4 alone, but that the evidence basis is less robust than for combining radiotherapy with ADT. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 18. In select patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer, clinicians may consider other treatment options such as cryosurgery. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 19. Active surveillance may be offered to select patients with favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer; however, patients should be informed that this comes with a higher risk of developing metastases compared to definitive treatment. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 20. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 21. Clinicians should inform intermediate risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or HIFU that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) High Risk Disease 22. Clinicians should stage high risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Clinical Principle) 23. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus ADT as standard treatment options for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 24. Clinicians should not recommend active surveillance for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. Watchful waiting should only be considered in asymptomatic men with limited life expectancy (≤5 years). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 25. Cryosurgery, focal therapy and HIFU treatments are not recommended for men with high risk localized prostate cancer outside of a clinical trial. (Expert Opinion) 26. Clinicians should not recommend primary ADT for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer unless the patient has both limited life expectancy and local symptoms. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 27. Clinicians may consider referral for genetic counseling for patients (and their families) with high risk localized prostate cancer and a strong family history of specific cancers (e.g., breast, ovarian, pancreatic, other gastrointestinal tumors, lymphoma). (Expert Opinion) RECOMMENDED APPROACHES AND DETAILS OF SPECIFIC CARE OPTIONS Active Surveillance 28. Localized prostate cancer patients who elect active surveillance should have accurate disease staging including systematic biopsy with ultrasound or MRI guided imaging. (Clinical Principle) 29. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should have routine surveillance PSA testing and digital rectal exams. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 30. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should be encouraged to have a confirmatory biopsy within the initial two years and surveillance biopsies thereafter. (Clinical Principle) 31. Clinicians may consider multiparametric prostate MRI as a component of active surveillance for localized prostate cancer patients. (Expert Opinion) 32. Tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in active surveillance for localized prostate cancer and are not necessary for follow up. (Expert Opinion) 33. Clinicians should offer definitive treatment to localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance who develop adverse reclassification. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Prostatectomy 34. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that younger or healthier men (e.g., <65 years of age or >10 year life expectancy) are more likely to experience cancer control benefits from prostatectomy than older American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 5 men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 35. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that open and robot assisted radical prostatectomy offer similar cancer control, continence recovery, and sexual recovery outcomes. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 36. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that robotic/laparoscopic or perineal techniques are associated with less blood loss than retropupic prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 37. Clinicians should counsel localized prostate cancer patients that nerve sparing is associated with better erectile function recovery than non nerve sparing. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 38. Clinicians should not treat localized prostate cancer patients who have elected to undergo radical prostatectomy with neoadjuvant ADT or other systemic therapy outside of clinical trials. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 39. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering prostatectomy, that older men experience higher rates of permanent erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence after prostatectomy compared to younger men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 40. Pelvic lymphadenectomy can be considered for any localized prostate cancer patients undergoing radical prostatectomy and is recommended for those with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk disease. Patients should be counseled regarding the common complications of lymphadenectomy, including lymphocele development and its treatment. (Expert Opinion) 41. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk prostate cancer about benefits and risks related to the potential option of adjuvant radiotherapy when locally extensive prostate cancer is found at prostatectomy. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Radiotherapy 42. Clinicians may offer single modality external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy for patients who elect radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) 43. Clinicians may offer external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy alone or in combination for favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) 44. Clinicians should offer 24 36 months of ADT as an adjunct to either external beam radiotherapy alone or external beam radiotherapy combined with brachytherapy to patients electing radiotherapy for high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) 45. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that use of ADT with radiation increases the likelihood and severity of adverse treatment related events on sexual function in most men and can cause other systemic side effects. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 46. Clinicians should consider moderate hypofractionation when the localized prostate cancer patient (of any risk category) and clinician decide on external beam radiotherapy to the prostate (without nodal radiotherapy). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 47. For localized prostate cancer patients with obstructive, non cancer related lower urinary function, surgical approaches may be preferred. If radiotherapy is used for these patients or those with previous significant transurethral resection of the prostate, low dose rate brachytherapy should be discouraged. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 48. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering proton beam therapy that it offers no clinical advantage over other forms of definitive treatment. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 49. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering brachytherapy that it has similar effects as external beam radiotherapy with regard to erectile dysfunction and proctitis but can also exacerbate urinary obstructive symptoms. (Expert Opinion) American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 6 Whole Gland Cryosurgery 50. Clinicians may consider whole gland cryosurgery in low and intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients who are not suitable for either radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy due to comorbidities yet have >10 year life expectancy. (Expert Opinion) 51. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that cryosurgery has similar progression free survival as did non dose escalated external beam radiation (also given with neoadjuvant hormonal therapy) in low and intermediate risk disease, but conclusive comparison of cancer mortality is lacking. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 52. Defects from prior transurethral resection of the prostate are a relative contraindication for whole gland cryosurgery due to the increased risk of urethral sloughing. (Clinical Principle) 53. For whole gland cryosurgery treatment, clinicians should utilize a third or higher generation, argon based cryosurgical system for whole gland cryosurgery treatment. (Clinical Principle) 54. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering cryosurgery that it is unclear whether or not concurrent ADT improves cancer control, though it can reduce prostate size to facilitate treatment. (Clinical Principle) 55. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that erectile dysfunction is an expected outcome. (Clinical Principle) 56. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery about the adverse events of urinary incontinence, irritative and obstructive urinary problems. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) HIFU and Focal Therapy 57. Clinicians should inform those localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy or HIFU that these treatment options lack robust evidence of efficacy. (Expert Opinion) 58. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering HIFU that even though HIFU is approved by the FDA for the destruction of prostate tissue, it is not approved explicitly for the treatment of prostate cancer (Expert Opinion). 59. Clinicians should advise localized prostate cancer patients considering HIFU that tumor location may influence oncologic outcome. Limiting apical treatment to minimize morbidity increases the risk of cancer persistence. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) 60. As prostate cancer is often multifocal, clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy that focal therapy may not be curative and that further treatment for prostate cancer may be necessary. (Expert Opinion) OUTCOME EXPECTATIONS AND MANAGEMENT Treatment Side Effects and Health Related Quality of Life 61. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that erectile dysfunction occurs in many patients following prostatectomy or radiation, and that ejaculate will be lacking despite preserved ability to attain orgasm, whereas observation does not cause such sexual dysfunction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 62. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that long term obstructive or irritative urinary problems occur in a subset of patients following observation or active surveillance or following radiation, whereas prostatectomy can relieve pre existing urinary obstruction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 63. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that whole gland cryosurgery is associated with worse sexual side effects and similar urinary and bowel/rectal side effects as those after radiotherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) 64. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary urinary incontinence occurs in most patients after prostatectomy and persists long term in a small but significant subset, more than during American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 7 observation or active surveillance or after radiation. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A 65. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary proctitis following radiation persists in some patients long term in a small but significant subset and is rare during observation or active surveillance or after prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Post Treatment Follow Up 66. Clinicians should monitor localized prostate cancer patients post therapy with PSA, even though not all PSA recurrences are associated with metastatic disease and prostate cancer specific death. (Clinical Principle) 67. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients of their individualized risk based estimates of post treatment prostate cancer recurrence. (Clinical Principle) 68. Clinicians should support localized prostate cancer patients who have survivorship or outcomes concerns by facilitating symptom management and encouraging engagement with professional or community based resources. (Clinical Principle) American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 8 INTRODUCTION METHODOLOGY Systematic Review. The systematic review utilized in the creation of this guideline was completed in part through the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and through additional supplementation that further addressed additional key questions and more recently published literature. A research librarian experienced in conducting literature searches for comparative effectiveness reviews searched in MEDLINE®, PreMEDLINE, Embase®, the Cochrane Library, the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects, the Health Technology Assessment Database, and the UK National Health Service Economic Evaluation database to capture literature published from January 1, 2007 through March 7, 2014. Additional supplemental searches were conducted adding additional literature in August 2015 and August 2016. Assessment of Risk of Bias of Individual Studies. Two researchers assessed methodologic risk of bias for each study and resolved discrepancies by consensus. When consensus could not be reached, a third researcher adjudicated. Researchers assessed the risk of bias by following the guidelines in the chapter “Assessing the Risk of Bias of Individual Studies When Comparing Medical Interventions” in the “Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews.”1 This involved evaluating several items, such as randomization, allocation concealment, intention to treat analysis, and completeness of follow up. Additionally, researchers assessed fidelity to the protocol to address performance bias and blinding of outcome assessors to address detection bias when outcomes were subjective. To be considered as having low risk of bias, the study must have met all the following conditions: randomization or pseudo randomization (e.g., using instrumental variable analysis) of study participants to treatment groups, concealment of allocation, data analysis based on the intention to treat principle, an outcome that was objective if outcome assessors were not blinded or blinding of outcome assessors was not reported, a difference of or less in the length of follow up for the comparison groups, data for more than of enrolled patients provided at the time point of interest, and no clear indication of lack of fidelity to the protocol. To be considered as having high risk of bias, the study must have met at least one of the following criteria: trial did not randomly or pseudo randomly (i.e., using instrumental variables) assign patients to study groups and did not blind outcome assessors, trial had a difference of or more in the length of follow up for comparison groups, or trial stated that there was not good fidelity to the protocol. To be considered as having medium risk of bias, the study met neither the criteria for low risk of bias nor the criteria for high risk of bias. Determination of Evidence Strength. The categorization of evidence strength is conceptually distinct from the quality of individual studies. Evidence strength refers to the body of evidence available for a particular question and includes not only individual study quality but consideration of study design, consistency of findings across studies, adequacy of sample sizes, and generalizability of samples, settings, and treatments for the purposes of the guideline. The AUA categorizes body of evidence strength as Grade A (well conducted and highly generalizable randomized controlled trials [RCTs] or exceptionally strong observational studies with consistent findings), Grade B (RCTs with some weaknesses of procedure or generalizability or moderately strong observational studies with consistent findings), or Grade C (RCTs with serious deficiencies of procedure or generalizability or extremely small sample sizes or observational studies that are inconsistent, have small sample sizes, or have other problems that potentially confound interpretation of data). By definition, Grade A evidence is evidence about which the Panel has a high level of certainty, Grade B evidence is evidence about which the Panel has a moderate level of certainty, and Grade C evidence is evidence about which the Panel has a low level of certainty.2 AUA Nomenclature: Linking Statement Type to Evidence Strength. The AUA nomenclature system explicitly links statement type to body of evidence strength, level of certainty, magnitude of benefit or risk/burdens, and the Panel’s judgment regarding the balance between benefits and risks/burdens (Table 2). Strong Recommendations are directive statements that an action should (benefits outweigh risks/burdens) or should not (risks/burdens outweigh benefits) be undertaken because net benefit or net harm is substantial. Moderate Recommendations are directive statements that an action should (benefits outweigh risks/burdens) or should not (risks/burdens outweigh benefits) be undertaken because net benefit or net harm is moderate. Conditional Recommendations are non directive statements used when the evidence indicates that there is no apparent net benefit or harm or when the balance between benefits and risks/burden is unclear. All three statement types may be supported American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 9 by any body of evidence strength grade. Body of evidence strength Grade A in support of a Strong or Moderate Recommendation indicates that the statement can be applied to most patients in most circumstances and that future research is unlikely to change confidence. Body of evidence strength Grade B in support of a Strong or Moderate Recommendation indicates that the statement can be applied to most patients in most circumstances but that better evidence could change confidence. Body of evidence strength Grade C in support of a Strong or Moderate Recommendation indicates that the statement can be applied to most patients in most circumstances but that better evidence is likely to change confidence. Body of evidence strength Grade C is only rarely used in support of a Strong Recommendation. Conditional Recommendations also can be supported by any evidence strength. When body of evidence strength is Grade A, the statement indicates that benefits and risks/burdens appear balanced, the best action depends on patient circumstances, and future research is unlikely to change confidence. When body of evidence strength Grade B is used, benefits and risks/burdens appear balanced, the best action also depends on individual patient circumstances and better evidence could change confidence. When body of evidence strength Grade C is used, there is uncertainty regarding the balance between benefits and risks/burdens, alternative strategies may be equally reasonable, and better evidence is likely to change confidence. Where gaps in the evidence existed, the Panel provides guidance in the form of Clinical Principles or Expert Opinion with consensus achieved using a modified Delphi technique if differences of opinion emerged.3 A Clinical Principle is a statement about a component of clinical care that is widely agreed upon by urologists or other clinicians for which there may or may not be evidence in the medical literature. Expert Opinion refers to a statement, achieved by consensus of the Panel, that is based on members' clinical training, experience, knowledge, and judgment for which there is no evidence. Process. The Localized Prostate Cancer Panel was created in 2012 by the American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. (AUA). The Practice Guidelines Committee (PGC) of the AUA selected the Panel Chair who in turn appointed the Vice Chair. In a collaborative process, additional Panel members, including members of the American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO), the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO), and Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO), with specific expertise in this area were then nominated and approved by the PGC. The AUA conducted a thorough peer review process. The draft guideline document was distributed to peer reviewers. The Panel reviewed and discussed all submitted comments and revised the draft as needed. Once finalized, the guideline was submitted for approval to the PGC and Science and Quality Council (S&Q). Then it was submitted to the AUA, ASTRO, and SUO Board of Directors for final approval. Panel members received no remuneration for their work. RISK STRATIFICATION After diagnostic biopsy and appropriate initial staging has demonstrated localized prostate cancer (clinical stage T1 T2, N0 or NX, M0 or MX), risk stratification of prostate cancer severity or aggressiveness should include PSA, clinical stage digital rectal exam (DRE), Grade Group, and amount of cancer on biopsy (i.e. number of cores involved, maximum involvement of any single core) PSA density, and imaging. The Panel agreed that segregating patients into a limited number of risk groups based upon these factors, are simple and easy to use and form the basis for decision making has clinical and practical value. The core of the Panel’s risk grouping is the original low , intermediate , and high risk grouping as proposed by D’Amico et al. in 19984 and that has been subsequently adopted by the National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN).5 We have further augmented the D’Amico criteria by subcategorizing the low risk group into very low and low risk based on criteria analogous to that first proposed by Epstein that have been adapted by the NCCN, and the intermediate risk group is subcategorized into favorable and unfavorable intermediate risk, based on the contemporary distinction between Grade Group 2 (Gleason score = 3+4) versus Grade Group 3 (Gleason score 4+3), as recently adopted by the World Health Organization, combined with consideration of the criterion of PSA being less than or higher than 10 ng/ml, a criterion that has been validated in discerning outcome differences in numerous clinical trials (Table 3). A practical rationale for care stratification by these core risk groups is that they are broadly used in contemporary practice, and they are based on criteria (PSA, DRE, Gleason score or Grade Group) that have been the cornerstone of eligibility or risk stratification in randomized clinical trials and prospective multicenter studies that constitute the basis of guideline recommendations. The very low risk group was adopted based upon the initial identification by Epstein et al.6 that men at the lowest risk of having significant cancer (defined as 0.2 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 10 TABLE 2: AUA Nomenclature Linking Statement Type to Level of Certainty, Magnitude of Benefit or Risk/Burden, and Body of Evidence Strength Evidence Strength A (High Certainty) Evidence Strength B (Moderate Certainty) Evidence Strength C (Low Certainty) Strong Recommendation (Net benefit or harm sub stantial) Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) is substantial Applies to most patients in most circumstances and future research is unlikely to change confi dence Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) is substantial Applies to most patients in most circumstances but better evidence could change confidence Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) appears substantial Applies to most patients in most circumstances but bet ter evidence is likely to change confidence (rarely used to support a Strong Recommendation) Moderate Recommendation (Net benefit or harm moderate) Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) is moderate Applies to most patients in most circumstances and future research is unlikely to change confi dence Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) is moderate Applies to most patients in most circumstances but better evidence could change confidence Benefits > Risks/Burdens (or vice versa) Net benefit (or net harm) appears moderate Applies to most patients in most circumstances but bet ter evidence is likely to change confidence Conditional Recommendation (No apparent net benefit or harm) Benefits = Risks/Burdens Best action depends on individual patient circum stances Future research unlikely to change confidence Benefits = Risks/Burdens Best action appears to depend on individual pa tient circumstances Better evidence could change confidence Balance between Benefits & Risks/Burdens unclear Alternative strategies may be equally reasonable Better evidence likely to change confidence Clinical Principle A statement about a component of clinical care that is widely agreed upon by urolo gists or other clinicians for which there may or may not be evidence in the medical literature Expert Opinion A statement, achieved by consensus of the Panel, that is based on members' clinical training, experience, knowledge, and judgment for which there is no evidence American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 11 cm3 or larger) were those with 2 or fewer cores positive, no core with > involved, Gleason 3+3/Grade Group 1, and a PSA density <0.15 ng/ml/cc. Multiple studies have since used this definition showing that these men have a very favorable outcome with a low probability of adverse pathology at surgery and low rate of metastatic disease when managed with active surveillance.7,8 Understanding that these data were derived largely from sextant biopsies, whereas extended core biopsies represent the vast majority of biopsies in clinical practice today, the Panel adopted the concept of no more than two of six cores positive to represent no more than one third of cores should be positive. This aligns with the Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment (CAPRA) score, where patients with or more positive cores are at increased risk.9 In regards to number of cores, there has been an increased adoption of targeted biopsies in recent years, often using MRI technology. As such, it is not uncommon to have an extended core systematic biopsy plus two or more targeted biopsies. The Panel strongly agreed that the targeted biopsies should not be included in the total percent of cores positive when defining risk group. In other words, if a man undergoes a 12 core systematic biopsy that finds 4 cores positive (1/3 of cores), and a targeted biopsy with 3 cores all of which are positive, the patient should be considered very low risk (4/12 cores positive, not 7/15 cores positive), assuming he meets all other low risk criteria and assuming the targeted biopsy was in the same location as one of the systematic biopsies. If the targeted biopsy was outside the location of a systematic biopsy, then it should count as one additional core. In this scenario, the patient would have 5/13 cores positive and be considered low risk, but not very low risk. Of note, while the very low risk grouping was originally designed to detect men with high likelihood of insignificant tumors, defined as <0.2 cc3, the Panel acknowledges that the definition of an insignificant tumor is difficult to define. As such, an image detected lesion >0.2 cc3 does not in and of itself mean a patient cannot be very low risk if the patient otherwise meets very low risk criteria. As this is a rapidly evolving area, the Panel acknowledges that the definition of very low risk in the era of highly accurate imaging may need to be revisited in the future. The intermediate risk group is defined by the well established D’Amico criteria for grade and PSA (i.e. Gleason 6 if PSA 10 20; or Gleason 7 if PSA <20), with updating of DRE wherein, consistent with NCCN recommendations, cT2c is categorized as intermediate risk not high risk (unless high risk Gleason score is present or PSA is over 20).10 The Panel determined that to facilitate care decisions, it would be prudent to incorporate contemporary “Grade Group” categorizations (Gleason 6 = Grade Group 1; Gleason 3+4 = Grade Group 2; Gleason 4+3 = Grade Group 3; Gleason score 4+4 = Grade Group 4, and Gleason score 4+5 = Grade Group 5) that were recently validated and endorsed by USCAP and WHO, as a cornerstone of subcategorizing the intermediate risk group into “favorable” and “unfavorable” intermediate risk group categories (Table 3).11 13 Accordingly, the Panel has defined favorable intermediate risk as those patients having Grade Group 2 cancers and PSA < 10 ng/ml, whereas unfavorable intermediate risk is comprised of men with either Grade Group 2 cancer with PSA = 10 20, or any Grade Group 3 with PSA <20 (Table 3). Alternatively, it has been proposed that men with more than one unfavorable risk feature (Grade Group 2, cT2b c, PSA 10 20 ng/ml, or > positive cores) should be considered unfavorable.10 Evidence that > positive cores has consistent prognostic validity is less robust than evidence supporting the distinction between Grade Group 2 and 3, or the evidence of differential outcomes based on PSA less than or greater than 10ng/ml; therefore, the Panel opted not to include percentage positive biopsy core in the subcategorization of intermediate risk cancers. Similarly, there was concern that in the unusual scenario of a man with cT2b or cT2c and a PSA between 10 and 20 ng/ml, but Grade Group 1, this may not represent unfavorable risk either, though this also requires formal validation in future studies. As such, unfavorable intermediate risk was defined as Grade Group 3 or Grade Group 2 and either a PSA between 10 and 20 ng/ml and clinical stage cT2b or cT2c. The Panel did not substratify high risk patients into high risk and very high risk (as has been proposed by the NCCN). The rationale to not further substratify high risk men is not based upon differences in outcome, but rather the lack of clinical utility as a context for decisions about treatment options is generally similar between high risk and very high risk men. However, the Panel did keep the distinction between very low and low risk as this does have clinical utility in terms of the optimal management for these men. Finally, the panel acknowledges that multivariable nomograms can also be used to predict the risk of many clinically relevant outcomes. Of these, the CAPRA score has emerged as a well validated and often used risk scoring system, though it has yet to be widely American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 12 incorporated into clinical trial design.9,14 While the Panel acknowledges that nomograms have advantages in terms of accuracy, there is lack of consensus regarding the best nomogram and what outcome should be measured. II. SHARED DECISION MAKING (SDM) 1. Counseling of patients to select a management strategy for localized prostate cancer should incorporate shared decision making and explicitly consider cancer severity (risk category), patient values and preferences, life expectancy, pre treatment general functional and genitourinary symptoms, expected post treatment functional status, and potential for salvage treatment. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Prostate cancer treatment is a complex medical decision. In almost all cases, there is not a single best treatment choice with regard to oncologic outcomes or side effects. Treatment selection should consider patient, tumor, and treatment related factors. However, men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer are often not presented with a complete description of all treatment options and treatment related side effects; up to a quarter of men are not asked about their treatment preferences.15 It is the consensus of the Panel that clinicians should fully engage in shared decision making (SDM), allowing patient values to drive this decision. SDM is a collaborative decision making process between patients and their clinicians. SDM is especially relevant in discussion of prostate cancer treatment because such decisions involve multiple clinically accepted options, and the ratio of benefits to harms is uncertain, equivalent, or “preference sensitive” (i.e. dependent on the value that an individual patient may place on them).16,17 SDM aims to improve the quality of medical decisions by helping patients choose options consistent with their own values and in accordance with the best available scientific evidence.18 21 RCTs of SDM versus routine care have demonstrated that patients engaged in SDM are more knowledgeable, have more realistic expectations, participate more actively in the care process, and more frequently arrive at decisions aligned with their personal preferences.17,18 The Institute of Medicine and the AUA have both articulated strong support for the use of SDM for complex decisions such as treatment for localized prostate cancer.22,23 2. Prostate cancer patients should be counseled regarding the importance of modifiable health related behaviors or risk factors, such as smoking and obesity. (Expert Opinion) While age is a well established risk factor for prostate cancer, there are now clear data showing that other patient related factors such as smoking and excess body weight, typically assessed as a high body mass index (BMI), are correlated with prostate cancer death.24,25 Moreover, these factors are also risk factors for death from any cause. As such, clinicians are strongly encouraged to use the time of prostate cancer diagnosis as a “teachable moment” to counsel patients about weight loss and smoking cessation. In regards to surgically treated patients, in general, smoking, older age, and obesity increase the risk of perioperative complications, including bleeding, infections, and deep venous thromboses in non prostate surgeries.26 28 As similar results have been seen elsewhere in the urological literature, there is no reason to believe these factors do not contribute to perioperative morbidity from prostate cancer.29 Another factor linked with poor American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® TABLE 3: Risk Stratification for Localized Prostate Cancer Very Low Risk PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a AND < of biopsy cores positive AND no core with > involved, AND PSA density <0.15 ng/ml/cc Low Risk PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a Intermediate Risk PSA 10 <20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 2 3 OR clinical stage T2b c  Favorable: Grade Group 1 (with PSA 10 <20) OR Grade Group 2 (with PSA<10)  Unfavorable: Grade Group 2 (with either PSA 10 <20 or clinical stage T2b c) OR Grade Group 3 (with PSA < 20) High Risk PSA >20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 4 5 OR clinical stage >T3* *Clinical stage T3 cancer is considered locally advanced and, therefore, outside the scope of this guideline. Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 13 outcomes is frailty. Two recent studies using patients undergoing urological surgery both found that higher frailty index was associated with a significantly higher risk of complications.29,30 Similarly, another study found lower functional status (i.e. partially or totally dependent versus independent) was associated with increased risk of complications, particularly Clavien Grade IV or V complications.31 Therefore, life expectancy should be assessed on all men prior to deciding on appropriate treatment for prostate cancer. However, while these factors increase the risk of general surgical complications, the degree to which these factors impact prostate cancer treatment related morbidity is less clear. A prospective multicenter study of 1,201 prostate cancer survivors treated with radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy reported an independent association of obesity with reduced vitality or androgen function but not other aspects of health related quality of life (QoL), such as urinary or sexual function.32 As obesity is correlated with more aggressive prostate cancer, whether this worse androgen function is related independently to obesity or mediated by a greater need for hormonal therapy in obese men due to their more aggressive disease is not known. Similarly, another prospective study found obesity was associated with worse pretreatment vitality,33 which had a negative impact on posttreatment health related QoL. In regards to smoking, there are limited data linking smoking with treatment specific outcomes. However, as smoking is in general associated with poor erectile function and urinary problems, it stands to reason that smoking may make recovery of these factors post treatment more problematic. In summary, there is strong circumstantial evidence that smoking and obesity may adversely impact treatment outcomes in men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer. Given these concerns, the Panel felt that patients should be informed of the risks. Moreover, the Panel agreed that most patients should be offered the opportunity to delay therapy for a few months to allow them time to lose weight or stop smoking to reduce these perioperative risks as long as doing so does not significantly impair cancer control. 3. Clinicians should encourage patients to meet with different prostate cancer care specialists (e.g., urology and either radiation oncology or medical oncology or both), when possible to promote informed decision making. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) A patient deciding on treatment for localized prostate cancer often has many options. Even choosing among common treatment options can be overwhelming for a newly diagnosed patient. The various and evolving options also make it less likely that any individual clinician will have personal experience and current knowledge of all therapeutic modalities. Moreover, studies suggest that practitioners may have biases (conscious and subconscious, financial and non financial) for and against certain management strategies.34 Both urologists and radiation oncologists have been observed to recommend whichever therapy they deliver in their practice.35,36 Such observations are troubling, since prostate cancer treatment decisions should be concordant with patients’ preferences. Providers can combat the effects of such biases on treatment selection by engaging the patient in SDM. Additionally, patients may better understand the available treatment options by consulting with multiple practitioners skilled in the specific treatment modalities relevant to the patient’s particular case. Consultation with multiple providers, especially in teams including a medical oncologist, in one location on the same day, may benefit the patient by encouraging SDM and mitigating the possible effects of physician bias.37 39 Additionally, including primary care providers in the treatment discussion may help patients make a preference concordant decision.40 4. Effective shared decision making in prostate cancer care requires clinicians to inform patients about immediate and long term morbidity or side effects of proposed treatment or care options. (Clinical Principle) Each of the initial localized prostate cancer management strategies has a typical pattern of side effects, frequently different from those of other treatments. For properly counseled patient, these side effect profiles may determine treatment selection. However, patients are often not informed of these side effects in sufficient detail, which precludes effective SDM and may lead to a preference discordant treatment choice.23 Active surveillance has no immediate effect on urinary, bowel, or sexual function. Indeed, over time, active surveillance preserves QoL compared to surgical and radiation treatments until such time as one of those treatments may become necessary.41 However, patients who elect active surveillance as an initial management strategy may expect to see declines in urinary, bowel, and sexual function over time, and select men may experience anxiety over deferring definitive management.42 44 Changes in urinary and sexual function come as a normal part of aging in these men. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 14 Conflicting data exist regarding the possibility that serial biopsies may be associated with accelerated declines in these domains.45,46 However, prediagnosis obstructive urinary symptoms are known to be worse in active surveillance patients in comparison to those who elect surgery.47 All in all, between 50 of men who elect active surveillance as an initial management strategy have discontinued it by year 10.7,48,49 Patients electing definitive therapy are more likely to have immediate side effects. Surgery patients may experience bleeding, infection, and pain in the immediate term and then experience erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence, urethral stricture and (very rarely) bowel problems. The risk of perioperative death from prostate cancer surgery is <0. in most series.32,50,51 The same side effects observed after surgery are possible with radiotherapy approaches, though bowel problems are more common, and sexual and continence side effects take much longer to develop. In general, radical prostatectomy causes more early erectile dysfunction (nerve sparing better than non nerve sparing) and urinary incontinence than radiation treatment,32,52 though erectile dysfunction and urinary bother beyond two to five years may be similar between surgery and radiation.43,44,53 Radiation treatment causes more urinary irritation (brachytherapy more than external beam radiation)32 and modestly more gastrointestinal side effects than radical prostatectomy.44,52 Radiation treatment may be associated with a very small but increased risk for secondary cancer, specifically bladder cancer and rectal cancer. The suspected incidence of radiation induced second primary cancers is reported to affect between 1 of patients in the years following treatment.54,55 However, the absolute increase in risk is likely small, and published studies are difficult to interpret due to uncontrolled confounders. External beam radiotherapy is associated with secondary rectal cancers (30 cases per 100,000 person years of follow up; or 0. of patients followed for 10 years). Brachytherapy may have a slightly lower risk of secondary rectal cancers than external beam radiation (6 cases per 100,000 person years). 5. Clinicians should inform patients about suitable clinical trials and encourage patients to consider participation in such trials based on eligibility and access. (Expert Opinion) Treatment options can be characterized as standard and as investigational (clinical trial). In general standard therapies have proven efficacy and risks determined by prospective trials. There are many types of clinical trials including trials evaluating novel systemic, surgical or radiation therapies, new approaches to approved therapies, device trials and trials focusing on QoL and other patient outcomes. All clinical trials include specified aim(s) with a predetermined statistical plan. Institutional Review Boards (IRB) approve all clinical trials and patient consent forms, and all patients must sign consent for trial participation. In appropriate patients (i.e., good performance status, no active medical issues), clinical trial options should be considered, and trial options should be discussed with patients as part of the SDM process. Clinical trials are listed by diagnosis and stage on the Clinicaltrials.gov website. III. CARE OPTIONS BY CANCER SEVERITY/RISK GROUP Management options for localized prostate cancer stratified by cancer severity risk group, are summarized in Table 4 based on level of evidence and strength of recommendation. Specific guidelines for selecting management options for each localized prostate cancer risk group and the evidence basis for these recommendations follow: VERY LOW /LOW RISK DISEASE Very Low Risk: PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a AND < of biopsy cores positive AND no core with > involved, AND PSA density <0.15 ng/ml/cc Low Risk: PSA <10 ng/ml AND Grade Group 1 AND clinical stage T1 T2a 6. Clinicians should not perform abdomino pelvic CT or routine bone scans in the staging of asymptomatic very low or low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Evidence does not support the use of these scans for staging of newly diagnosed very low and low risk prostate cancer. CT scan is very unlikely to provide actionable information in men with very low/low risk prostate cancer. Likewise, bone scans are generally unnecessary in patients with favorable risk, newly diagnosed prostate cancer (PSA <20.0 ng/mL and a Grade Group =1; or PSA<10ng/ml and Grade Group 2, Table 3); unless the patient’s history or clinical examination suggests bony involvement.56,57 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 15 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Table 4. Care Options for Localized Prostate Cancer by Level of Evidence and Strength of Recommendation1 Evidence Level/ Recommendation Strength Prostate Cancer Severity/Aggressiveness Low Risk Intermediate Risk High Risk Very Low Risk Low Risk Favorable Unfavorable A / Strong Active Surveillance NA Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 with Androgen Deprivation Therapy B / Moderate NA Active Surveillance Radiotherapy2 without Androgen Deprivation Therapy NA NA B / Conditional NA Radical Prostatectomy OR Radiotherapy2 NA NA NA C / Conditional NA Cryosurgery (whole gland) Active Surveillance OR Cryosurgery (whole gland) Cryosurgery (whole gland) NA No evidence / clinical principle or expert opinion NA Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound Focal Ablative Therapy OR High Intensity Focused Ultrasound NA 1Multicenter Randomized Clinical Trials that constitute the basis for evidence: EORTC Bolla (XRT+ADT vs XRT): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk, high risk) SPCG4 (RP vs WW): Evidence supporting RP (intermediate risk, high risk) RTOG 9408 (XRT+ADT vs XRT): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk) PIVOT (RP vs WW): Evidence supporting AS (very low risk, low risk); RP (intermediate risk, high risk) EORTC (Widmark XRT+ADT vs ADT alone): Evidence supporting XRT+ADT (intermediate risk, high risk) PROTECT (AS vs RP vs XRT+ADT): Evidence supporting AS (very low risk, low risk, favorable intermediate risk); RP or XRT+ADT (low risk, favorable intermediate risk) Single center RCT: Donnelly et al. (Cryo+ADT vs XRT+ADT): Evidence supporting whole gland cryotherapy (low risk, intermediate risk) 2Radiotherapy includes a range of various forms of radiotherapy delivery (e.g., IMRT, brachytherapy, other) for which details of evidence and recommendation strength are presented in statements 42 49 of the guideline text Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 16 7. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the best available care option for very low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Multiple studies have shown that overall and prostate specific mortality appears higher for men with higher baseline Gleason scores.58 61 While Gleason 6 disease may have genetic and genomic abnormalities of disease with metastatic potential (though unclear if clinically significant), substantial evidence indicates that the majority of Gleason 6 prostate cancer has limited or no metastatic potential and does not pose a threat to the patient’s life.62,63 Most Gleason pattern 3 cancers lack the characteristic genetic aberrations associated with malignancy. Very low risk patients have a lower risk of harboring occult high grade cancer than those with higher volume Gleason 6. Low PSA density and low number of cores involved are all associated with a lower risk of contemporaneous high risk disease. Long term follow up studies of very low risk patients initially managed with active surveillance have shown a metastatic progression rate of < at 15 years.7,64,65 Studies indicate that the QoL of men managed with surveillance is superior to those who are treated with surgery or radiotherapy.52 Continence and erectile function is better in men on surveillance compared to those who undergo treatment, though both decline as a natural part of aging. Aside from disease progression, a major risk of active surveillance is that entailed by serial biopsies. These are recommended at between three and five year intervals after the initial confirmatory biopsy.7,66 Biopsies are associated with risks of infection and bleeding as well as increased rates of erectile dysfunction. The risks of serial prostate biopsies on health and QoL, particularly if performed at infrequent intervals, are considerably less than the long term risks of surgery and radiotherapy. There is a small subset of men who find the prospect of living with untreated prostate cancer severely anxiety provoking and are unwilling to remain on surveillance.42 Thus patients with very low risk prostate cancer in most cases require no treatment and should have active surveillance as their recommended care option. 8. Clinicians should recommend active surveillance as the preferable care option for most low risk localized prostate cancer patients. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) There is now sufficient evidence that the majority of men with low risk localized prostate cancer should initially be managed by active surveillance regardless of life expectancy. Such men with lower risk disease have a lower risk of both overall mortality and disease progression.58 61 While the natural history of active surveillance is uncertain and continues to be better defined, there is evidence that the risk of ultimate death from prostate cancer for low risk men managed with active surveillance is low. Likewise, the risk of metastases is low, though the very long term outcomes of active surveillance are not yet known. Moreover, while it is unlikely that active surveillance can lead to better oncological outcomes versus active treatment, it is clear that all treatments for prostate cancer have potential side effects. This is in sharp contrast with active surveillance, wherein the risks are related to repeat biopsies and missed occult higher risk disease, not the treatment itself. Thus, given the low risk of progression to metastatic disease on surveillance coupled with QoL benefits, active surveillance is the preferred management for most low risk men. The natural history of active surveillance for low risk men (as opposed to very low risk men) is less clear in part due to inherent limitations in biopsy sampling and current imaging approaches, though still appears quite favorable. The Panel acknowledges that men with higher volume disease (i.e. greater > of cores positive or those larger lesions seen on imaging), albeit still low risk, may be better served with active treatment. However, as with all treatment decisions in prostate cancer, SDM is paramount. 9. Clinicians may offer definitive treatment (i.e. radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy) to select low risk localized prostate cancer patients who may have a high probability of progression on active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Active surveillance for low risk disease reduces over treatment in prostate cancer. However, some men with low risk disease may have a higher risk of clinical progression on active surveillance and may benefit from definitive treatment at the time of diagnosis. Definitive treatment may be in the form of radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy with equivalent outcomes as discussed elsewhere in this guideline. Surgical and radiation treatments do not improve survival within 10 years of follow up compared to active surveillance for patients with early disease, but has been found to reduce disease progression and development of metastatic disease as shown in the Prostate Cancer Intervention American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 17 Versus Observation Trial (PIVOT) ( versus ) and the Prostate Testing for Cancer Treatment trial (ProtecT) ( versus ).50,51 The rationale for electing definitive treatment in low risk men is based on the fact that even men with low risk disease face a small chance of metastasis or prostate cancer specific mortality on active surveillance with data from long term studies finding this occurrence to be roughly .66 While this number is based on a combination of low and intermediate risk patients, it should be noted that metastasis occurs even in low risk patients, as evidenced by the data from the PIVOT and ProtecT trials, although at a low rate. Patients should be informed of the potential tradeoffs between immediate treatment versus active surveillance. In the PIVOT and ProtecT studies, and , respectively, of patients who started on active surveillance received treatment within 10 years.50,51 These patients likely harbored higher grade disease at the time of diagnosis, and identifying variables associated with progression may decrease the likelihood of these men missing their window for cure. Clinical predictors for an increased risk of higher grade disease or reclassification of subsequent biopsy include PSA density > 0.15, obesity as measured by BMI, African American race, and extensive Gleason 6 cancer on systematic biopsy cores.67 72 Men with a family history of aggressive prostate cancer characterized by early metastasis may not be ideal candidates for active surveillance even when presenting with low risk disease and should be counseled carefully regarding the diagnostic uncertainty of biopsy and progression. A recent analysis of the Canary Prostate Cancer Active Surveillance cohort identified patients with BMI>35kg/m as having a three fold increased risk of reclassification to higher risk disease on first surveillance biopsy. Men with PSA density >0.15ng/ml have a two fold risk of reclassification on first biopsy.67 African American men have a higher rate of reclassification than Caucasian men on active surveillance as well as a higher rate of adverse pathology on radical prostatectomy when this is chosen as definitive treatment.73,74 This is true among low risk patients, and this unique risk should be carefully weighed when deciding among treatment options. While reclassification does not always indicate that definitive treatment is required, the likelihood of short term progression must be discussed with all men considering active surveillance. The use of multiparametric MRI (mpMRI) has increased diagnostic specificity and should be considered at some point in the evaluation of men considering active surveillance. 10. Clinicians should not add ADT along with radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer with the exception of reducing the size of the prostate for brachytherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In RTOG 9408, which randomized 1,979 patients to EBRT with four months of ADT versus without ADT and had 9.1 years of median follow up, overall survival was not improved with ADT in subgroup analysis of 685 low risk patients.75 There is no randomized trial supporting a survival benefit from adding ADT to radiotherapy for low risk cancer. ADT can be used to reduce the size of the prostate to allow for improved dosimetry brachytherapy, but can cause short term sexual dysfunction and other associated side effects. 11. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that consequent side effects are considerable and survival benefit has not been shown in comparison to active surveillance. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) As most men with low risk disease have favorable outcomes with active surveillance, it is unclear whether cryosurgery improves survival outcomes. One randomized trial of EBRT versus cryosurgery with primarily intermediate and high risk prostate cancer patients reported similar actuarial five year overall and disease specific survival.76 Both utilized six months of perioperative ADT for both treatment arms. Prospective randomized or comparative trials of cryosurgery with active surveillance in a low risk cohort are lacking. It is unlikely that whole gland cryosurgery can provide comparable QoL as the preferred management for most low risk men. Erectile dysfunction should be an expected outcome for potent patients. A 2009 review of the literature concluded that most patients (80 ) should expect erectile dysfunction after whole gland cryosurgery and that it should not be offered to patients who desire preservation of potency.77 As with all treatments, patients considering cryosurgery should also be informed about the risks of adverse urinary and bowel function outcomes. Urinary retention after cryosurgery can persist for a few weeks and is best managed with a urethral or suprapubic catheter. Urethral sloughing at the verumontanum where the urethral warming catheter may not fully contact the mucosa apposition can result in temporary bothersome irritative symptoms in the early recovery period. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 18 12. Clinicians should inform low risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) As most men with low risk disease have favorable outcomes with active surveillance, it is unclear whether focal therapy or HIFU improve survival outcomes or provide comparable QoL as the preferred management for most low risk men. Prospective randomized or comparative trials of HIFU with active surveillance or other treatment modalities are lacking. Published five year oncologic outcomes are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of low risk prostate cancer. The Panel also recognizes there is a growing interested in partial prostate treatment (i.e. focal therapy) by both patients and clinicians. Theoretical advantages include less morbidity versus whole gland treatment. However, this is at the potential expense of leaving undetected and untreated cancer. In a group of men at high risk for overtreatment and coupled with the lack of long term oncological data of focal therapy, the Panel felt it was premature at this point to consider partial prostate treatment outside of a clinical trial. 13. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with low risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Men with a life expectancy of ≤5 years do not benefit from prostate cancer screening,79 diagnosis, or treatment. Prostate cancer treatment does not improve survival within five years of follow up.51 Patients diagnosed with low risk disease and a limited life expectancy should pursue watchful waiting. Unlike active surveillance, watchful waiting carries a palliative, non aggressive intent, and does not involve routine cancer monitoring including biopsies. With watchful waiting, patients who develop symptomatic progression from prostate cancer are offered treatments to palliate these symptoms. An accurate determination of a man’s life expectancy based on age and comorbidities is difficult.80 Methods available to determine life expectancy include clinician prediction, model prediction and publicly available calculators (e.g. https://www.ssa.gov/OACT/population/longevity.html). Life expectancy may be assessed in conjunction with a man’s primary care physician to determine a shared decision regarding surveillance. Clinicians should include the life expectancy estimate in a discussion with patient and family to develop rational individual patient treatment plans. 14. Among most low risk localized prostate cancer patients, tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in the selection of candidates for active surveillance. (Expert Opinion) Prospective active surveillance cohorts now comprise >10,000 patients, thousands of whom have been followed for >10 years. Clinical parameters (e.g., PSA, PSA density, extent of disease on biopsy, race, T stage) allow for stratification for risk of co existent higher grade disease. Monitoring low risk patients on surveillance is associated with a low risk of prostate cancer specific mortality. Therefore, the benefit to most patients of a biomarker to further stratify patients according to the risk of progression is modest. However, selected patients, particularly those whose risk factors suggest they are at above average risk for higher grade disease, may benefit from genomic testing. There are two potential benefits: reassurance for those patients with a favorable genomic risk score that conservative management is likely to be safe, and earlier identification of those at risk for disease progression on active surveillance who could benefit from treatment. As of the publication of this document, the three genetic tissue assays summarized below have been approved by the FDA for men with prostate cancer. None of these tests have yet been validated as providing substantial benefit in the active surveillance population. Genomic Classifier (GC) This is a 22 marker genomic classifier (GC), based on RNA expression. GC had independent predictive value on multivariable analysis for predicting metastasis following prostatectomy, with a hazard ration (HR) of 1.5 for each 10 percent increase in score,81 and these results were validated in two separate prostatectomy cohorts.82,83 A high score on biopsy is associated with an increased risk of metastasis (HR 1.7 for each increase in score).84,85 Genomic Prostate Score (GPS): This assay incorporates 12 cancer genes that represent four biological pathways of prostate cancer oncogenesis: the American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 19 androgen receptor pathway, cellular organization, stromal response, and proliferation. A 20 point increase in the genomic prostate score (GPS) is associated with a statistically significantly increased risk of high grade and/or non organ confined disease (odds ratio [OR] 1.9, CI 1.3 2.9).86 88 Cell Cycle Progression (CCP): This analyzes 31 cell cycle related genes and 15 housekeeping genes by quantitative RT PCR. The Transatlantic Prostate Group examined cell cycle progression (CCP) scores using needle biopsies of a conservatively managed prostate cancer cohort from Great Britain.89 In this cohort, of 349 men managed without primary treatment, the cumulative incidence of death was increased among those with CCP scores >2 ( of the population) compared with those with lower CCP scores. Patient outcomes could not be differentiated in those with lower CCP scores. The HR of prostate cancer death was 1.7 per unit increase in CCP score to 10 or CAPRA high risk disease.90 INTERMEDIATE RISK DISEASE Intermediate Risk: PSA 10 <20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 2 3 OR clinical stage T2b c  Favorable: Grade Group 1 (with PSA 10 <20) OR Grade Group 2 (with PSA<10)  Unfavorable: Grade Group 2 (with either PSA 10 <20 or clinical stage T2b c) OR Grade Group 3 (with PSA < 20) 15. Clinicians should consider staging unfavorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Expert Opinion) The probability for metastasis at diagnosis of localized prostate cancer associates with risk classification.91 The presence of metastasis increases with tumor stage and influences treatment options. Baseline staging recommendations are guides with the goal of reducing or eliminating routine imaging in men at low risk for metastasis and performing imaging of common metastatic sites in men at most risk for metastasis. The most common sites are pelvic/retroperitoneal lymph nodes and bones. Less common metastatic sites include lung and liver; however, metastasis to lung and liver are often seen at late disease stage or with uncommon variants, such as small cell. For men with intermediate risk prostate cancer, the Panel does not recommend routine imaging at diagnosis in all patients. The Panel recommends metastasis staging for men with two or more of the following features palpable nodule on DRE (stage T2b/c), Gleason 7 (3+4 or 4+3) or PSA >10. The type of imaging performed may vary by physician preference and availability, but testing should evaluate the pelvic/retroperitoneal lymph nodes by cross sectional imaging and bones by bone scintigraphy (99mTc MDP).92 The recommended cross sectional imaging is either MRI of the prostate or pelvis or CT scan of the abdomen/pelvis. There are relative advantages and disadvantages associated with MRI and CT. Prostate MRI provides more accurate imaging of the prostate gland and has no associated radiation exposure compared to CT; however, high quality prostate MRI may not be available at all sites.93 Technetium bone scans have been a longstanding assessment tool in prostate cancer. More sensitive bone imaging is becoming available, including 18F sodium fluoride PET/CT bone scans, PSMA PET imaging, and whole body MRI.94,95 Currently, only 18F sodium fluoride PET/CT is FDA approved. While these next generation scans are routinely used outside the United States, because of development and reimbursement issues, they are not routinely available in the United States and are not routinely recommended for staging at this time herein. For intermediate risk prostate cancer, the Panel’s recommendations for baseline imaging vary somewhat from NCCN and American College of Radiology (ACR) recommendations. NCCN qualifies staging recommendations for men with life expectancy > 5 years or symptomatic disease and recommends bone scan for T2 and PSA >10 and CT if T2 and have a nomogram probability for nodal involvement >. ACR uses descriptive language, and for intermediate risk prostate cancer recommends that pelvic MRI “usually” be done and CT and bone scan “may” be done.92 This Panel’s recommendation, based on expert opinion, is that imaging be considered if two or more risk factors are present and does not include nomogram calculations. 16. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) as standard treatment options for patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Two RCTs have evaluated overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival among men undergoing radical prostatectomy compared to watchful waiting or American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 20 observation: the Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group Study Number 4 (SPCG 4)96 and PIVOT.51 The SPCG 4 trial provided evidence supporting the setting of intermediate risk disease, because even though subset analyses focusing on the intermediate risk subgroup defined for the guidelines herein were not pre specified, most trial participants had intermediate risk cancer as evidenced by a) Gleason score 7 on biopsy, or b) clinical stage of T2, or c) PSA >10ng/ml at enrollment. SPCG 4 showed higher overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival among patients randomized to radical prostatectomy at 10 year’s follow up. In the trial, the relative risk of dying after surgery was observed to be reduced at 0.62 ( CI 0.44 to 0.87, p=0.01) with a reduction of cumulative incidence of death from prostate cancer from 20. to 14. at fifteen years. The PIVOT trial is the only RCT to have included pre specified analyses for evaluating survival differences stratified by prostate cancer risk categories and by PSA at initial diagnosis. Subject participants in PIVOT had predominantly low risk disease, and the trial was underpowered to conclusively demonstrate non inferiority. Accordingly, there was no difference in overall survival among the entire trial cohort (including low and intermediate risk subjects combined). However, pre specified subset analyses showed reduction in prostate cancer mortality among PIVOT participants who had either intermediate risk cancer or baseline PSA greater than 10ng/ml and underwent radical prostatectomy. In the trial, men who were randomized to surgery were found to have a lower risk of death from prostate cancer or treatment (hazard ratio 0.63, CI 0.36 to 1.09, p=0.09) with an absolute risk reduction estimated at 2.. Surgery was associated with an improvement in all cause mortality primarily in patients with PSA levels greater than 10 ng/ml (p=0.04) and possibly with intermediate and high risk cancers (p=0.07). Notably, the watchful waiting and observation arms of SPCG 4 and PIVOT, respectively, did not include monitoring or surveillance with intent to use delayed definitive intervention for specific progression criteria, as is the fundamental principle that discerns contemporary active surveillance/management (in contrast to watchful waiting or observation). Such active surveillance/management was compared to radical prostatectomy in the ProtecT trial, which randomized subjects to surveillance, external beam radiotherapy combined with hormonal therapy, or radical prostatectomy.50 However, ProtecT had an even greater preponderance of low risk prostate cancer among participants than was present in PIVOT. Among patients randomized to surveillance, nearly half underwent definitive intervention at some point during the first 10 years of follow up. A non significant difference in overall survival or prostate cancer specific survival was seen at 10 years follow up in ProtecT, but subset analysis of intermediate risk patients was not performed, limiting the relevance of ProtecT with regard to possible survival benefit of radical prostatectomy in intermediate risk cancer. Of interest, despite the preponderance of low risk disease in ProtecT, prostate cancer clinical progression and metastases were significantly lower among subjects randomized to either prostatectomy or radiation with hormonal therapy compared to those randomized to surveillance. Additionally, an early underpowered RCT enrolling 97 men compared radical prostatectomy to radiotherapy but found no difference in death or metastatic rate after five years of follow up.97 A series of comparative outcome results based on retrospective information using propensity adjustment or instrumental analysis comparing radical prostatectomy versus external beam radiotherapy, and radical prostatectomy versus prostate brachytherapy, have suggested a mortality reduction in patients treated with surgery compared to external beam radiation and brachytherapy.59,60,98 107 In follow up to these individual investigations, Wallis et al. have published a meta analysis of nineteen pooled studies with 118,830 patients.108 This study reported that overall survival and prostate cancer specific survival were higher for the surgical patients. In particular, the observed benefit was seen irrespective of risk category, radiation regimen, time period, and follow up length. This study, although large, utilizes retrospective data and can be subject to significant bias. The magnitude of this potential clinical benefit, if any, has not been prospectively validated or demonstrated in any large RCT, including the ProtecT study. 17. Clinicians should inform patients that favorable intermediate risk prostate cancer can be treated with radiation alone, but that the evidence basis is less robust than for combining radiotherapy with ADT. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Two randomized trials support the addition of ADT to EBRT for intermediate risk prostate cancer. RTOG 9408 randomized 1,979 patients to EBRT (66.6 Gy) with versus without four months of ADT and had 9.1 years of median follow up.75 Ten year overall survival improved with ADT for the intermediate risk subgroup American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 21 of 1,068 patients from to (p=.03). A smaller trial randomized 206 patients to 70 Gy of radiation with versus without 6 months of ADT.109 In patients with little or no comorbidity, 15 year overall survival was improved with ADT ( versus , p=.04). A caveat to these trials was the use of lower radiation doses no longer considered standard today. At least four randomized trials have compared lower radiation doses (68 70 Gy) to modern higher radiation doses (74 80 Gy), and all demonstrated improved cancer control with higher radiation doses.110 113 These trials have led to the adoption of higher radiation doses as the modern standard of care, and the benefit of adding ADT to modern higher doses of radiation is the subject of continued investigation. EORTC 22991 randomized 819 patients ( intermediate risk) to RT (doses ranged from 70 to 78 Gy) versus RT with ADT;114 ADT improved clinical progression free survival even among patients who received 78 Gy of RT, but overall survival data are not yet mature. There are no randomized trials demonstrating a survival benefit from adding ADT to low dose rate or high dose rate brachytherapy monotherapy, so ADT should not be added to brachytherapy except to reduce the size of the prostate to allow the dosimetry to be optimized. There is emerging recognition that intermediate risk prostate cancer represents a broad group of patients with varying prognoses, and a new classification system separates intermediate risk into unfavorable and favorable groups (as defined in the Introduction).11 Patients with unfavorable intermediate risk disease should be especially considered for the addition of ADT to EBRT. 18. In select patients with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer, clinicians may consider other treatment options such as cryosurgery. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Treatment options routinely employed for the treatment of intermediate risk prostate cancer include radical prostatectomy, and external beam radiotherapy. However, cryosurgery, may be appropriate depending on patient specific factors, including preferences, comorbidities, and life expectancy. Comparative effectiveness research evaluating cryosurgery for localized prostate cancer has been limited to one RCT and several non randomized prospective or comparative studies.115 117 Whole gland ablative therapies such as cryosurgery may be appropriate for patients with contraindications to more traditional therapies, such as prostatectomy or radiotherapy (e.g. medically inoperable patients with either previous pelvic radiotherapy or autoimmune disorders). All of these management approaches (observation/watchful waiting, active surveillance, cryosurgery) do not currently have sufficient published prospective comparative evidence for their routine application for the management of intermediate risk prostate cancer, and patients should be informed of this lack of comparative evidence during SDM discussions. 19. Active surveillance may be offered to select patients with favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer; however, patients should be informed that this comes with a higher risk of developing metastases compared to definitive treatment. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Active surveillance may be appropriate in selected patients with intermediate risk disease who have selected deferred primary treatment to delay treatment related toxicities until tumor progression. Patients who are considering surveillance may benefit from an MRI and targeted biopsy. If the MRI is negative, or targeted biopsy shows only Gleason 6 disease, they are likely to have a favorable prognosis, and surveillance is a reasonable strategy. However, patients who elect active surveillance should be informed that this comes with a risk of developing metastases as shown in the PIVOT and ProtecT trials.50,51 There are, several groups of Gleason 7 patients who may be favorable candidates.118 Patients with small volume cancer on biopsy who have < Gleason pattern 4 may reflect artifactual upgrading due to tangential cut of a Gleason 3 acinus, in which case the lumen is not seen and the pathologist’s impression is of a solid clump of cells (i.e. higher grade).119,120 20. Clinicians should recommend observation or watchful waiting for men with a life expectancy ≤5 years with intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Observation/watchful waiting is an approach to prostate cancer that does not include active surveillance with PSA/MRI/repeat prostate biopsy and by definition also does not include prostate cancer therapies such as surgery/radiation/androgen deprivation. Randomized trials have been done comparing prostatectomy to observation.51,52,96 The SPCG 4 trial was composed of non screen detected tumors and demonstrated benefit American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 22 for prostatectomy; the survival benefit was primarily in men < 65 years of age.96 The PIVOT trial ( low , intermediate , high risk) did not show a benefit for prostatectomy for the total group; however, a subset analysis of the intermediate risk patients did show benefit (HR 0.69).51 At four years the mortality was identical in both cohorts. Thus patients with life expectancy <5 years are unlikely to derive survival benefit from prostatectomy. When choosing an initial therapy for localized prostate cancer, it is important to consider the patients psychological state (competency, anxiety, depression). A SEER Medicare analysis demonstrated that men with depression were less likely to have definitive therapy (surgery or radiation) and that depressed men also had worse overall (not prostate cancer specific) mortality across prostate cancer risk classifications.121 Clinicians should be aware of mental health issues as a possible cause of treatment disparity and seek multidisciplinary input when appropriate. 21. Clinicians should inform intermediate risk prostate cancer patients who are considering focal therapy or HIFU that these interventions are not standard care options because comparative outcome evidence is lacking. (Expert Opinion) The Panel recognizes that novel therapies including HIFU and focal prostate ablation may provide QoL advantages for patients in comparison to surgery and radiotherapy. However, there are no prospective randomized or comparative effectiveness data versus traditional treatments available. Published five year oncologic outcomes for HIFU are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials of HIFU in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of intermediate risk prostate cancer. The Panel also recognizes there is a growing interested in partial prostate treatment (i.e. focal therapy) by both patients and clinicians. Theoretical advantages include less morbidity versus whole gland treatment though this is at the potential expense of leaving undetected and untreated cancer. Initial focal therapy reports with short term follow up suggest effective disease eradication in the treated area of appropriately selected patients. Studies where TRUS biopsy of the treated volume or side was performed per protocol, clinically significant cancer was identified in a minority (<) of patients.122 124 However, comparative data comparing focal therapy to other treatment approaches, such as prostatectomy, radiotherapy, observation, or active surveillance, are lacking in the literature.118,125 The Panel recommends that if focal therapy or HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for intermediate risk prostate cancer, it should preferably be offered within the context of a clinical trial. HIGH RISK DISEASE High Risk: PSA >20 ng/ml OR Grade Group 4 5 OR clinical stage >T3 22. Clinicians should stage high risk localized prostate cancer patients with cross sectional imaging (CT or MRI) and bone scan. (Clinical Principle) Before widespread adoption of PSA screening, most incident prostate cancers were only diagnosed at an advanced stage. Treatment options such as surgery or radiation were believed only to benefit patients with localized disease, which necessitated an imaging evaluation to stage almost every patient prior to treatment. In the modern era, however, over of prostate cancers are localized, making the need for routine imaging to detect metastases with CT, MRI, or bone scan obsolete.126 Prior studies demonstrate that PSA <10 ng/ml has a negative predictive value of 99. for significant findings on bone scan, and < of patients with PSA < 20ng/ml have positive bone scans or CTs.127 131 In spite of these data and longstanding guidelines to curb imaging overuse, many patients still undergo improper imaging.126 Data is limited for other tests to detect distant metastases such as fluciclovine PET, total body MRI, NaF PET, choline/acetate PET, PSMA PET.132 Further research may establish the utility of these modalities, but likely only for high risk patients. Standard FDG PET is generally not a useful test in this setting.133 23. Clinicians should recommend radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy plus androgen deprivation therapy as standard treatment options for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Men with high risk disease are most likely to develop metastases and die from prostate cancer. There are two randomized prospective studies that support radical prostatectomy as treatment of high risk disease. The SPCG 4 trial compared radical prostatectomy and watchful waiting.96 At 15 years, all cause mortality favored radical prostatectomy (46. versus 52., American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 23 RR, 0.75; CI, 0.61 to 0.92), and prostate cancer specific mortality favored radical prostatectomy (14. versus 20., RR, 0.62; CI, 0.44 to 0.87). Although the PIVOT trial did not demonstrate an overall survival advantage with surgery, there was a significant difference in the rate of bone metastases at both the 10 year and 12 year follow up favoring radical prostatectomy treated patients.51 Furthermore, in men with high risk disease undergoing surgery, the rates of prostate cancer specific death was significantly lower, 9. compared to 17. for the observation arm. For radiotherapy and ADT, there are two types of studies that show efficacy. First, ADT and radiotherapy are superior to radiotherapy alone, and long term ADT is superior to short term ADT although the duration of long term ADT remains under investigation.134 136 Second, ADT and radiotherapy are superior to ADT alone and thus suggest that local therapy is important even among patients at high risk for subclinical metastatic disease.137,138 For high risk prostate cancer patients receiving external beam radiotherapy and ADT, brachytherapy boost (low dose rate or high dose rate) should be offered to eligible patients. 24. Clinicians should not recommend active surveillance for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer. Watchful waiting should only be considered in asymptomatic men with limited life expectancy (≤5 years). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Localized high risk prostate cancer should be considered a life threatening disease. Albertsen et al. analyzed Connecticut Tumor Registry data of men with localized prostate cancer who were either not treated or treated with delayed ADT.139 Men with Gleason 8 10 tumors had a 60 chance of dying from prostate cancer within 15 years of diagnosis (age dependent). Thus watchful waiting for high risk prostate cancer should only be considered for asymptomatic men with limited life expectancy (<5 years). RCTs are of high quality, but results differ likely based on baseline patient characteristics.51,52,96 The PIVOT trial randomly assigned men with localized prostate cancer to prostatectomy or observation ( were high risk).51 For the total cohort at four years, there was no difference in death from prostate cancer. Prostate cancer mortality was lower for high risk patients in the prostatectomy cohort compared to observation (9. versus 17., p=0.04). In the SPCG 4 trial ( high risk) prostatectomy was associated with reduced mortality in all groups with the most benefit in the younger men (<65 years, relative risk 0.38). While randomized data is lacking comparing radiation to observation, in a population based cohort, prostate cancer specific mortality was higher with observation compared to radiation in the subset of men with high risk disease.140 Available data supports active intervention (rather than surveillance) in men with high risk disease unless a patient is expected to die from competing causes within five years. 25. Cryosurgery, focal therapy and HIFU treatments are not recommended for men with high risk localized prostate cancer outside of a clinical trial. (Expert Opinion) A randomized clinical trial evaluating the efficacy of cryosurgery in comparison to radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy for high risk localized prostate cancer is lacking. One randomized clinical trial demonstrating similar short term oncologic outcomes for EBRT versus cryosurgery has been reported for primarily intermediate risk disease patients.76 A small percentage had high risk features ( Gleason score ≥8, ≥ T3a, none with PSA > 20) but a subset analysis was not provided to support cryosurgery for high risk localized prostate cancer patients. Another randomized trial comparing outcomes of EBRT versus cryosurgery for primarily high risk or locally advance disease patients terminated early for lack of accrual and demonstrated inferior 8 year biochemical disease free recurrence rate for the cryosurgery ( versus ).141 Long term prospective randomized data of cryosurgery for men with high risk localized prostate cancer is lacking. There are no prospective randomized or comparative effectiveness data for HIFU versus traditional treatments available. Published five year oncologic outcomes for HIFU are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials of HIFU in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of high risk prostate cancer. There is no agreement defining the ideal patient for focal therapy. Consensus statements identify patients with low risk prostate cancer and an unequivocal solitary primary tumor who desire intervention as the ideal candidate for this investigational approach.118,124 Some investigators have expanded criteria to patients with intermediate risk disease and rarely high risk. However, comparative data comparing focal therapy to other treatment approaches for high risk prostate cancer, such as prostatectomy or radiotherapy, are American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 24 lacking in the literature. The Panel recommends that if cryosurgery, focal therapy or HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for high risk prostate cancer, it should only be done within the context of a clinical trial. 26. Clinicians should not recommend primary ADT for patients with high risk localized prostate cancer unless the patient has both limited life expectancy and local symptoms. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) A randomized prospective study comparing the androgen receptor inhibitor bicalutamide 150 mg to placebo found no significant difference in overall survival or prostate cancer specific survival in men with localized prostate cancer.142 Several large retrospective studies comparing primary ADT to no ADT failed to demonstrate improved long term overall or disease specific survival for men with localized prostate cancer.143 145 In one study, there was a slightly reduced risk of all cause mortality in a high risk subgroup treated with primary ADT,143 but in another study the small benefit was limited to prostate cancer specific survival and not overall survival in men with poorly differentiated cancer.144 The risks of serious adverse events associated with ADT and the high costs associated with its use outweigh the limited benefits, if any. Therefore, primary ADT should be used only to palliate symptoms of disease or prevent imminent symptoms associated with disease progression. 27. Clinicians may consider referral for genetic counseling for patients (and their families) with high risk localized prostate cancer and a strong family history of specific cancers (e.g., breast, ovarian, pancreatic, other gastrointestinal tumors, lymphoma). (Expert Opinion) The incidence of germline mutation in DNA repair genes in localized prostate cancer is low with estimates of BRCA2 in 1 ,146,147 and there have not been standard recommendations for genetic screening/counseling for prostate cancer patients. Recently it was reported that the incidence of somatic mutation of DNA repair genes (e.g., BRCA2, ATM) in metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is .148 The incidence of germ line mutation of DNA repair genes in men with mCRPC is approximately .149 The mutations seen were BRCA2 (), ATM (), CHEK2 (), BRCA1 () and others (1 ). High Gleason score (8 10) and family history of cancer (breast, ovarian, pancreatic, other gastrointestinal, lymphoma) in first degree relatives was associated with germline DNA repair mutations in mCRPC patients. Young age and family history of prostate cancer was not associated with germline DNA repair mutations in the seven cohorts analyzed. Patients with localized prostate cancer who are at highest risk for developing mCRPC, may have a higher incidence of germline DNA repair mutations than expected from published reports: the incidence is to be determined but may approach 5 . The presence of germline DNA repair gene mutations has important implications for the prostate cancer patient in terms of general cancer screening and possible future prostate cancer treatment decisions. Additionally the presence of germline DNA repair mutations is of utmost relevance to the patient’s first degree family members due to increased cancer risk and screening implications. The Panel recommends that clinicians take detailed family history of cancers and give consideration to patient referral for genetic screening and counseling for men with localized high risk prostate cancer, particularly in the setting of family history of first degree relatives with cancers of breast, ovary, pancreas, other gastrointestinal cancers, and lymphoma. IV. RECOMMENDED APPROACHES AND DETAILS OF SPECIFIC CARE OPTIONS ACTIVE SURVEILLANCE 28. Localized prostate cancer patients who elect active surveillance should have accurate disease staging including systematic biopsy with ultrasound or MRI guided imaging. (Clinical Principle) The accuracy of initial prostate biopsy schemes depends on several factors. Sampling accuracy decreases progressively with increasing prostate volume.150 Furthermore, PSA, free/total PSA ratio (%fPSA), and DRE influence the detection rate. Substantial modifications from the original sextant approach have resulted in an extended biopsy scheme (defined as the traditional sextant template plus at least four and up to eight laterally directed samplings from the peripheral zone) as an initial diagnostic biopsy strategy.150 152 The 12 core biopsy scheme (sextant template plus laterally directed sampling from each sextant template) has become the most widely accepted method. Some practitioners also take a core from the anterior transition zone on each side since this is a common site for missed cancers.153 Extended biopsy has a significantly superior detection rate compared to sextant biopsy.154,155 The Vienna American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 25 nomogram suggested a minimum number of cores (range: 8 18) based on patient age and gland volume in the PSA 2 10 ng/ml range to ensure certainty of cancer detection.156 Most initial biopsy studies have shown that more than 12 15 cores is not beneficial.157,158 Current consensus supports a 10 to 12 core extended biopsy scheme, with additional cores from areas suspected by DRE, transrectal ultrasonography (TRUS), or MRI. Template Transperineal Saturation Biopsy: In an attempt to improve the detection of clinically significant cancers, transperineal template mapping techniques have been developed using an external 5 mm grid.159,160 In one study, 3D mapping biopsy was positive for cancer in only (144 of 180) of patients with previously proven cancer. Bilateral disease was demonstrated in , and were confirmed to have only unilateral disease. The false negative rate was , even with an aggressive transperineal technique in men who were known to be positive for cancer at initial biopsy. Detection of anterior cancer is enhanced using this technique.160 However, template based biopsy is significantly more resource intensive and invasive. Template biopsy also risks biopsy related morbidity, including a rate of urinary retention. Oversampling also increases the potential for diagnosing clinically insignificant cancer. Conformational changes occur during multiple needle passes, and template based biopsy can still involve real time sampling errors. It requires anesthesia and more pathology resources Therefore, the indications for a transperineal saturation template biopsy remain limited, but there may be a role. MRI targeted biopsy: The recent development of MRI imaging of prostate cancer promises to enhance the early identification of aggressive disease in men diagnosed with low risk prostate cancer who are candidates for surveillance. These men may benefit from an MRI and targeted biopsy; about can be expected to be upgraded. In several recent publications comparing targeted to template biopsies, about of men with a negative MRI had clinically significant cancer.161 163 The need for confirmatory biopsies in surveillance candidates with a negative MRI is controversial. This should likely depend on other risk factors, including PSA density, race, and the known volume of Gleason 6 cancer. Targeted biopsy can be performed using cognitive co registration, fusion targeted biopsy systems, or in bore MRI guided biopsies. Each of these has pros and cons. All three techniques are acceptable. Several small series have suggested that stable findings on mpMRI are associated with Gleason score stability.164 The appeal of serial MRI in men on surveillance is that it may allow a safe reduction in the frequency and number of follow up biopsies. However, the role of serial MRI for monitoring patients during surveillance has yet to be validated. An interval of wo years between MRIs in men on surveillance has been suggested by several authors.165 Value of DRE:166 In a prostate cancer screening study of 36,000 men, many cancers detected by DRE were clinically important in those with a PSA level <4.0 ng/ml. Six percent (n = 2,233) underwent radical prostatectomy, and 303 () were diagnosed by DRE alone. Of the cancers detected by DRE alone, 60 () were non organ confined, and 56 () had a Gleason score ≥7. Gleason score ≥7 cancers detected at PSA levels <1.0, 1.0 2.0, 2.0 3.0, and 3.0 4.0 ng/ml were present in , , , and of cases, respectively. In surveillance series, 3 of patients are identified as having progression based on DRE. While limited by the subjective nature of the examination, annual DRE remains an important part of the assessment of men on surveillance. 29. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should have routine surveillance PSA testing and digital rectal exams. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) For patients who elect active surveillance as a management approach, surveillance should include PSA testing and DRE in order to help identify patients who may consider active treatment. In the ProtecT trial, which showed similar survival with active surveillance versus radiotherapy or radical prostatectomy, trial subjects had regular PSA testing and DREs performed. While the optimal frequency of PSA and DRE has not been established, in ProtecT PSA testing was recommended every three months in year one, then three to six month subsequently with DRE performed during urology follow up visits.50 30. Localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance should be encouraged to have a confirmatory biopsy within the initial two years and surveillance biopsies thereafter. (Clinical Principle) The published active surveillance literature includes 23 prospective studies. The largest 11 studies with extended follow up encompass approximately 5,000 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 26 men and are summarized in Table 5.7,66,167 175 The studies contain varying eligibility criteria. While each was designed to identify patients with favorable prognoses, and thus good candidates for active surveillance, the clinical criteria applied at different sites and in different studies vary. They each include early clinical stage, low serum PSA, and Gleason score consistent with well or moderately differentiated tumors. Beyond these three core components, many incorporate number and percentage of positive cores, extent of tumor involvement within a biopsy core, PSA density, and kinetics. PSA density has been recognized by many groups as a biomarker for higher risk disease. A PSA density of <0.15 is an indicator of a more benign phenotype and low volume disease. Although not universally accepted, several sites recommend repeat prostate biopsy before committing to active surveillance in order to identify patients where initial biopsies may have missed higher risk features. In most patients, delaying this biopsy for six months to a year is unlikely to have an impact on long term outcome, even if higher grade disease is later identified. Eligibility criteria heterogeneity reflects a different risk tolerance between investigators. For those centers with more inclusive criteria, the potential advantages of surveillance outweigh what is believed to be a small increased risk of metastasis occurring while being surveilled. In the ProtecT trial, in whom of randomized patients had intermediate or high risk cancer, there was a small increase in metastatic progression in the expectant management arm compared to those treated radically, but no difference in prostate cancer mortality. The increased progression rate likely reflected the inclusion of higher risk patients in the cohort.50 In contrast, other centers only include very low risk patients by NCCN guidelines (1 2 cores positive, < of core involvement, and PSA density <0.15). Several decision analyses suggest that it would require a substantial increase in prostate cancer mortality under surveillance compared to radical intervention before surveillance would lose the net benefit for low and intermediate risk groups.176 However, these analyses are limited by the uncertainty inherent in these models. Surveillance follow up strategies differ depending on study center. Although the key parameters available for monitoring include PSA, DRE, and repeat prostate biopsy, no group has defined the appropriate criteria to trigger active intervention or testing intervals. The probability that higher grade disease will be diagnosed on biopsy during active surveillance is 8 .177 This usually represents a higher grade component of the original tumor that was not originally sampled rather than evolution to higher grade disease. Biopsy intervals vary from one to five years. In the large scale PRIAS trial, men are prospectively followed on active surveillance and repeat prostate biopsies are scheduled at one, four, and seven years after the diagnostic biopsy.167 Current Cancer Care Ontario Guidelines,178 which have also been adopted by ASCO,179 are for PSA every 3 6 months, DRE each year, and systematic biopsies within 6 12 months after the diagnostic biopsy, and then every 3 5 years until the patient is ‘switched’ to watchful waiting. 31. Clinicians may consider multiparametric prostate MRI as a component of active surveillance for localized prostate cancer patients. (Expert Opinion) mpMRI of the prostate is a promising diagnostic test that may improve both selection of patients for and monitoring of patients on active surveillance.180 The literature reports a high negative predictive value (82 ) for the detection of clinically significant prostate cancer using mpMRI.181 A negative MRI thus may improve enrollment and long term outcomes for active surveillance candidates by ruling out the presence of occult lesions and confirming that presumed low risk disease is truly low risk. mpMRI may also improve retention of men in active surveillance programs by obviating the need for frequent repeat biopsies. Finally, MRI appears to be useful in detecting occult clinically significant disease among active surveillance candidates whose initial biopsy demonstrates only Gleason 6 disease. If it is employed, mpMRI should be performed on at minimum a 1.5 Tesla magnet MRI and include diffusion weighted imaging (DWI) with apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC), T2 weighted (T2W) imaging, and dynamic intravenous contrast enhanced (DCE) imaging.93,181,182 The interpretation and reporting of mpMRI information should be performed by a radiologist experienced in the interpretation of prostate mpMRI and conform to the the guidelines described in the Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System (PI RADS) v2.183 It should be noted that MRI as a single modality is not able to detect all Gleason 7 or higher tumors, potentially exposing a small subset of men to delayed treatment of clinically significant cancer. The Panel does not recommend the use of mpMRI in place of prostate biopsy at this time. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 27 32. Tissue based genomic biomarkers have not shown a clear role in active surveillance for localized prostate cancer and are not necessary for follow up. (Expert Opinion) The lethal potential of prostate cancer is difficult to predict with precision based on stage, grade, and PSA level. The presence of only Gleason pattern 3 predicts for a favorable clinical outcome. However, the limitation of systematic biopsies is the pathologic miss of higher grade cancer in 25 of patients.184,185 Earlier identification of patients with co existent higher grade cancer is a major unmet need in the field. The challenge for tissue based genetic tests is to provide more accurate risk stratification than currently available optimally used clinical tools and predictive modeling in a way that is reasonably cost effective. The role of tissue based genomic biomarkers for patients on active surveillance during follow up remains uncertain. RNA expression profiles of selected gene panels can be performed on small samples of cancer in biopsy specimens to predict prognosis more accurately. Genomic analyses of prostate cancer reveal distinct patterns of alterations in the genotype that may predict prognosis more accurately. While such assays have sufficient analytic and clinical validity, their clinical utility in active surveillance remains to be established. In particular, these assays were validated in the pre MRI era. Their incremental value in the context of men who have had a mpMRI is unclear. An additional concern regarding the use of biopsy based molecular biomarkers is the sampling error inherent in prostate biopsy given known tumor heterogeneity. The proportion of men whose clinical risk category is substantially altered by molecular tests, particularly in men with low risk disease, is relatively minor. However, in the future these assays may have the greatest incremental value at the time of diagnosis in reassuring selected men who have ‘low risk’ (versus very low risk) disease (for example, men with extensive Gleason 6 cancer and/or high PSA density, or a strong family history of early death from prostate cancer); and in those in whom clinical findings are discordant with the pathological findings on follow up (for example, men with a PI RADS 4 5 lesion on MRI whose targeted American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer TABLE 5: Active Surveillance Reference n Median follow up (months) % treated over all; % treatment free Overall/disease specific survival (%) % BCR post deferred treatment Klotz (2015) Canada66 993 92 30; 72 at 5 years 79/ 97 at 10 years 25 (6 overall) Tosoian (2015) United States7 1298 60 50 at 10 years 57 at 15 years 69/99.9 at 15 years NR Bul (2013) Multicenter, Europe167 2500 2494 20 21 77/100 at 10 years 20 Dall’Era (2008) United States168 328 321 43 24; 67 at 5 years 100 (disease specific) NR Kakehi (2008) Multicentre, Japan169 118 36 51; 49 at 3 years NR NR Roemeling (2007) Netherlands170 273 41 29; 71 at 5 years 89/100 at 5 years NR Barayan (2014) Cana da171 155 155 65 20 100/100 NR Rubio Briones (2014) Spain172 232 36 27 93 at 5 years/99.5 NR Godtman (2014)173 439 63 81/99.8 14 Thomsen (2013) Den mark174 167 40 35; 60 at 5 years NR NR Selvadurai (2014) Unit ed Kingdom175 471 67 30 98/99.7 12 28 biopsy is negative or shows only Gleason 6 cancer). 33. Clinicians should offer definitive treatment to localized prostate cancer patients undergoing active surveillance who develop adverse reclassification. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) For patients who elect active surveillance as a management approach (versus watchful waiting) there is an assumption that active treatment should be initiated upon the detection of adverse features that may change the patient’s risk category. This may be due either to an incorrect original classification or to true progression from a lower risk to a higher risk category.67,186 Thus, if there is adverse reclassification due to the detection of a higher Gleason score than was present at the initiation of surveillance, definitive treatment should be considered. Other factors that may lead to adverse reclassification include growth of lesion on mpMRI and suspicious rises in PSA that may change PSA density.187 In the PIVOT and ProtecT studies, and , respectively, of patients who started on active surveillance received treatment within 10 years.50,51 PROSTATECTOMY 34. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that younger or healthier men (e.g., <65 years of age or >10 year life expectancy) are more likely to experience cancer control benefits from prostatectomy than older men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Compared to other cancers, prostate cancer is typically a slowly evolving disease. Numerous studies exploring its natural history have suggested that, even if high grade and left untreated, disease specific survival is a median of 8 10 years after diagnosis.139,188 193 It is, therefore, unlikely that men with short life expectancy will benefit from treatment. It is also unlikely that clinical trials following patients for a shorter interval than 8 10 years will be able to demonstrate a survival advantage attributable to the intervention being studied. In comparison to watchful waiting, the survival benefit from radical prostatectomy was observed predominantly in the <65 year old age group.96 While the older group did not experience a statistically significant decrease in mortality, these older men nonetheless demonstrated a trend towards longer life and a significant decrease in metastases. Two other studies with short follow up failed to demonstrate that age was significantly associated with survival after radical prostatectomy.50,51 However, even at 10 years follow up, one of them did find an increased risk of metastases among younger men, a finding highly suggestive of future risk of prostate cancer mortality. 35. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that open and robot assisted radical prostatectomy offer similar cancer control, continence recovery, and sexual recovery outcomes. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Data from a prospective RCT in Australia found no difference in margin status between open and robotic approaches. Ten percent of patient in the open and of patients in the robotic group had a positive surgical margin (p=0.21). Follow up was very limited in these patients, so long term outcomes are not known.194 The Health Professionals Follow up study also found no difference in oncologic outcomes between the two surgical approaches, including no difference in positive surgical margin rates, and no difference in recurrence free survival at three and five years of follow up, odds ratios 0.98 [CI, 0.46 2.08] and 0.75[CI, 0.18 3.11], respectively.195 A matched comparison study of open and robotic radical prostatectomy found no significant difference in biochemical progression free survival at three years. While these data are limited, all indicate that the surgical approach does not impact cancer control in the immediate term. Urinary incontinence is one of the most distressing side effects of radical prostatectomy, even when limited in duration and severity. Multiple studies have found no statistical difference in the rates of continence after open, robotic, or perineal radical prostatectomy.194 197 All surgical approaches confer a risk of erectile dysfunction after radical prostatectomy, and this must be discussed with patients preoperatively. There is no statistically significant difference in retrospective, prospective non randomized, and prospective randomized trials in the rate and recovery of erectile function if an open, laparoscopic, or robotic assisted laparoscopic approach is used. 36. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that robotic/laparoscopic or perineal techniques are associated with less blood loss than retropupic prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Radical prostatectomy has a risk of bleeding requiring transfusion whether it is performed open or via a American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 29 minimally invasive approach, such as pure laparoscopic or robotic assisted laparoscopic surgery. Patients must be informed prior to surgery of this risk, and patient preferences regarding transfusion must be considered accordingly. Two randomized trials found a lower rate of transfusion with minimally invasive approaches compared to open surgery.194,197 In a prospective randomized trial of open radical retropubic prostatectomy versus robotic assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy from Australia, there was a mean estimated blood loss of 1,338ml for open surgery compared to 443ml for robotic surgery, p<0.001. There were no intraoperative transfusions due to use of cell saver, but six patients in the open group had postoperative transfusions compared to one in the robotic group. This difference was not statistically significant p=0.12.194,197 A prospective non randomized trial in Sweden also found statistically less perioperative bleeding with a robotic approach, 185ml, versus an open approach, 683cc p<0.001. The Health Professionals follow up study similarly found a lower estimated blood loss (207ml versus 852ml) and a lower transfusion rate (4. versus ) associated with robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy compared to open radical retropubic prostatectomy (P<0.0001). 37. Clinicians should counsel localized prostate cancer patients that nerve sparing is associated with better erectile function recovery than non nerve sparing. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Early experience with radical prostatectomy was marked by large intraoperative blood loss and near certain postoperative erectile dysfunction. Advances in anatomic understanding of pelvic anatomy and advances in surgical technique allowed for the preservation of the neurovascular bundles containing the cavernous nerves responsible for penile tumescence. Preservation of the neurovascular bundles during radical prostatectomy allowed for the possibility of erections in 50 of men, a strong proof of principle. Prospective registries have demonstrated that nerve sparing prostatectomy improved post operative sexual function as well as overall QoL.32,198 This benefit appears to exist irrespective of surgical approach, as no difference has been observed in erectile dysfunction between robotic assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy as compared to open radical prostatectomy, where nerve sparing techniques are possible; however, erectile dysfunction was less in retropubic radical prostatectomy as compared to perineal prostatectomy, where nerve sparing is typically not possible. 38. Clinicians should not treat localized prostate cancer patients who have elected to undergo radical prostatectomy with neoadjuvant ADT or other systemic therapy outside of clinical trials. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Four randomized prospective studies compared three months of neoadjuvant ADT followed by radical retropubic prostatectomy to radical prostatectomy alone.199 202 In all four studies, at up to seven years of follow up, there was no significant difference in biochemical (PSA) recurrence between the groups. Therefore, there is no long term oncologic benefit to adding neoadjuvant ADT to radical prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer. A randomized, prospective study of neoadjuvant docetaxel combined with ADT followed by radical prostatectomy compared to radical prostatectomy alone for high risk prostate cancer is ongoing, so this combination is still considered investigational.203 39. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering prostatectomy, that older men experience higher rates of permanent erectile dysfunction and urinary incontinence after prostatectomy compared to younger men. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Patient age has been recognized to be a key determinant of post prostatectomy sexual recovery since the earliest studies of nerve sparing prostatectomy by Walsh, and the pivotal role of patient age as an indicator of erectile function recovery has been validated in two multicenter prospective cohorts (CaPSURE and PROSTQA).32,204 207 Predictive models indicate approximately 15 reduction in probability for recovery of erections firm enough for intercourse for each decade of life from age 50 to 70.204,208 210 It commonly takes one to two years to achieve maximal recovery of erectile function. Patients considering prostatectomy should be counseled accordingly. Older age has also been shown to reduce the pace and extent of post prostatectomy urinary continence recovery.32,205,211 For example, studies evaluating patient reported pad use, as a measure of urinary incontinence, showed that the relative risk of incontinence increases 2 fold for men 70 years of age compared to men at 60 years of age ( versus incontinence at 1 year, when defined as use of more than one pad daily).212,213 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 30 40. Pelvic lymphadenectomy can be considered for any localized prostate cancer patients undergoing radical prostatectomy and is recommended for those with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk disease. Patients should be counseled regarding the common complications of lymphadenectomy, including lymphocele development and its treatment. (Expert Opinion) Pelvic lymphadenectomy (PLND) is the most effective means of detecting nodal metastases. Variability in the reported rates of nodal metastases reflects both primary tumor characteristics and the extent of PLND. Several reports have clearly shown that extended PLND is associated with a higher lymph node detection rate as compared with limited PLND, regardless of prostate cancer aggressiveness.214 The primary lymph nodes draining the prostate are extensive, as high as the aorta and inferior vena cava in the retroperitoneum.215 About of the primary lymph nodes are contained within a standard dissection limited to the obturator fossa; about two thirds of the primary nodes are contained within an extended template that includes the obturator fossa and the tissue medial and lateral to the internal iliac vessels.216 Evidence is lacking as to whether or not the removal of lymph nodes containing metastatic prostate cancer has therapeutic benefit. Several studies suggest an extended PLND improves biochemical relapse free survival,217 219 but this finding has not been consistently observed, particularly with more limited dissections.220 223 Even if improved biochemical free survival translates to improved prostate cancer specific survival, removal of all primary nodes is not feasible.216 There is no curative benefit from having negative lymph nodes removed, although one study demonstrated a modest (0.) improved prostate cancer specific and overall survival compared to patients who did not undergo a lymph node dissection at the time of radical prostatectomy. Nomograms have been developed to predict the likelihood of having histologically positive nodes.214,225 Lymphocele is the most common complication of PLND occurring in up to of cases.226 Most lymphoceles are asymptomatic and require no treatment.227 Symptomatic lymphoceles occur in 0. to of patients,226 and can be managed by placing a percutaneous drain and instilling sclerosing agents with resolution between 70 100 % depending on the study and type of sclerosing agent being used. In lymphoceles refractory to percutaneous drainage and sclerosis, minimally invasive marsupialization of the lymphocele is recommended.226 41. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients with unfavorable intermediate risk or high risk prostate cancer about benefits and risks related to the potential option of adjuvant radiotherapy when locally extensive prostate cancer is found at prostatectomy. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) SWOG 8794 randomized subjects to adjuvant radiotherapy or no adjuvant after prostatectomy and showed that adjuvant radiotherapy was associated with temporary or early gastrointestinal (Grade 1 2 in in adjuvant group versus in controls) and urinary ( in adjuvant versus in controls) toxicity at 6 weeks after treatment. These side effects subsided to no difference between the treatment arms at five years.228 Although a single non randomized prospective study has implicated late Grade 2 urinary toxicity in of subjects receiving adjuvant radiotherapy,229 a single institution RCT showed no difference in urinary continence at one year.230 These RCT’s are flawed in that they relied on clinician report, which is prone to underestimate morbidity, and did not measure treatment specific morbidity by contemporary patient report methodology. RADIOTHERAPY 42. Clinicians may offer single modality external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy for patients who elect radiotherapy for low risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) While active surveillance is the preferred management strategy, radiotherapy can be considered as an alternative for low risk prostate cancer in patients who select treatment at diagnosis or during follow up.50,231 Various radiotherapy options exist with unique treatment and technical issues related to each modality.232,233 Options for treatment include intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT), low dose rate brachytherapy, and high dose rate brachytherapy.234 237 IMRT is a form of external beam photon therapy that uses multiple radiation beam and/or arcs to provide a highly conformal treatment of the prostate with normal tissue sparing of adjacent organs, such as the rectum and bladder. SBRT generally utilizes photon based IMRT treatment to deliver hypofractionated radiation American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 31 treatment usually in five or fewer fractions of treatment. Low dose rate brachytherapy utilizes radioactive seeds that are implanted based of pretreatment and intraoperative image guidance according to a computer plan. High dose rate brachytherapy uses temporary catheters implanted in the prostate to allow for the delivery of a high activity radiation source. All allow for the delivery of highly conformal radiotherapy. There is no evidence that combinations of therapies are required for the treatment of low risk prostate cancer given the low risk of extra capsular disease extension and the favorable biochemical control rates associated with the use of monotherapy. 43. Clinicians may offer external beam radiotherapy or brachytherapy alone or in combination for favorable intermediate risk localized prostate cancer. (Clinical Principle) Radiotherapy can be considered as an appropriate option for intermediate risk prostate cancer.50,231 Various radiotherapy options exist with unique treatment and technical issues related to each modality.232,233 Options for treatment include IMRT, SBRT, low dose rate brachytherapy, and high dose rate brachytherapy.234 237Additionally, combination therapy of external beam combined with brachytherapy can be also be delivered using various combinations (IMRT combined with either low dose or high dose rate brachytherapy). The rationale of combination therapy can be either for the improved coverage of the periprostatic space and/or planned coverage of the pelvic lymph nodes in patients with unfavorable intermediate risk disease.238 High level prospective clinical trials to define the most appropriate radiation treatment to optimize clinical outcomes for intermediate risk prostate cancer continues to emerge in the literature. Results of the RTOG 0232 trial assessing low dose brachytherapy with and without EBRT have been reported and published in abstract form while complete findings are awaited. 44. Clinicians should offer 24 36 months of ADT as an adjunct to either external beam radiotherapy alone or external beam radiotherapy combined with brachytherapy to patients electing radiotherapy for high risk localized prostate cancer. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Two randomized trials have compared EBRT with short term versus long term ADT. EORTC 22961 randomized 1,113 men with high risk prostate cancer to EBRT plus 6 versus 36 months of ADT.135 Five year overall mortality was for short term ADT and for long term ADT. RTOG 9202 randomized patients to EBRT plus 4 versus 28 months of ADT.239 In the subgroup of patients with Gleason 8 10 disease, 5 year overall survival was for short term ADT and for long term ADT. Based on these trials, acceptable ADT durations for radiotherapy patients with high risk prostate cancer range from 24 36 months. A randomized trial that compared radiotherapy plus 18 versus 36 months ADT in high risk patients has not been published with mature data; at this time it is unknown if 18 months of ADT is an acceptable duration. Radiation treatment options for high risk prostate cancer include IMRT, and IMRT plus brachytherapy (low or high dose rate). There are little data of long term efficacy of SBRT in high risk prostate cancer, and this modality is not recommended. In high risk patients without evidence of nodal metastasis based on imaging, radiation treatment may electively include pelvic nodal areas because published nomograms demonstrate that these patients have a risk of harboring micrometastatic nodal disease. Whether pelvic radiotherapy improves survival is the subject of a current randomized trial. Prior randomized trials comparing prostate only versus prostate and pelvic radiation treatment have not demonstrated improved survival from electively adding pelvic radiation.240 242 45. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that use of ADT with radiation increases the likelihood and severity of adverse treatment related events on sexual function in most men and can cause other systemic side effects. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) ADT can cause sexual side effects, hot flashes, decreased bone mineral density, gynecomastia, depression, fatigue, and weight gain. A variety of strategies have been studied to help mitigate these effects.243 Patient reported sexual dysfunction of radiotherapy plus short term ADT versus radical prostatectomy was compared in a randomized trial, with the latter associated with more sexual dysfunction through six years of follow up.52 Patients who receive long term ADT versus short term ADT experience these symptoms for a longer period of time. However, in the EORTC 22961 trial, long term overall QoL was similar in the two arms, likely suggesting patient adaptation to the ADT associated symptoms over time.135 There is a risk of non recovery of testosterone in a American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 32 subset of patients after ADT. In a published study of patients who received 2 years of ADT, recovered to supracastrate testosterone levels while recovered to baseline or normal testosterone levels.244 Younger patients are more likely to have testosterone recovery. 46. Clinicians should consider moderate hypofractionation when the localized prostate cancer patient (of any risk category) and clinician decide on external beam radiotherapy to the prostate (without nodal radiotherapy). (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) Traditionally, radical EBRT is usually delivered with standard daily fractionation schedules with about 1.8 2.0Gy per day.245 The rationale for this approach is that most tumors are thought to have rapid proliferation and are best treated with standard fractionation schedules to best take advantage of the high alpha beta ratio associated with such situations.245 Alpha beta values describe the curvature of a cell survival curve after exposure to various doses of radiotherapy. The alpha beta ratio is the dose where cell killing due to the linear and quadratic components are equal. There is mounting evidence that certain tumors (e.g., prostate, sarcoma, and melanoma) may be associated with lower proliferation and hence with an associated lower alpha beta ratio. Recently, a series of RCTs have been published to inform the potential of moderate hypofractionation given with modern radiation technology as well as what is considered by many to be adequate doses to optimize biochemical control in both the standard (1.8 2.0Gy/day) and experimental (hypofractionation) arms for these studies. The CHHiP trial randomized 3,216 men to one of three treatment arms (74Gy standard fractionation, 60Gy hypofractionation at 3 Gy/fraction, and 57Gy hypofractionation at 3 Gy/fraction).246 248 Sixty Gy in 20 fractions was found to be non inferior to 74Gy in 37 fractions (HR 0.84 ( CI 0.68 1.03) in terms of biochemical and/or clinical failure. No differences in side effects were noted between the study groups. The short term non inferiority of modern moderate hypofractionated external beam radiotherapy have been replicated in two other non published RCTs; however, the main limitation of these studies is the lack of long term follow up in terms of clinically important cancer control and toxicity outcomes. Patients at risk for late effects of radiotherapy (including but not limited to pre existing lower urinary tract symptoms [LUTS], transurethral resection of the prostate [TURP], and anticoagulant usage) may be better served with conventional fractionation (1.8 2.0 Gy/day). 47. For localized prostate cancer patients with obstructive, non cancer related lower urinary function, surgical approaches may be preferred. If radiotherapy is used for these patients or those with previous significant transurethral resection of the prostate, low dose rate brachytherapy should be discouraged. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Because EBRT and brachytherapy, especially the latter, can cause acute urinary obstructive and irritative symptoms,32 patients with significant baseline urinary obstructive symptoms may prefer radical prostatectomy. Another relative contraindication for brachytherapy is large prostate size >60 cc because of increased risk of urinary side effects.249 A prior TURP is an absolute contraindication for brachytherapy if the defect precludes adequate placement of seeds.21 Relative contraindications to EBRT and brachytherapy include inflammatory bowel disease and history of prior pelvic radiotherapy due to increased risk for treatment related morbidity.250 Ataxia telangiectasia is an absolute contraindication to both EBRTand brachytherapy because these patients have a severe response to ionizing radiation.250 48. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering proton beam therapy that it offers no clinical advantage over other forms of definitive treatment. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) The predominant forms of EBRT are delivered by photon therapy (either generated by a machine such as a linear accelerator or by a radioactive source such as a cobalt 60 unit) or electrons (usually used for superficial tumors/targets).251 Proton therapy utilizes proton charged particles with superior dosimetric advantages over photons and electrons as they stop depositing dose at an energy dependent distance from the treatment source; therefore, sparing of tissue beyond this distance can be accomplished.251 In situations where targets are in close proximity to normal tissue organs, the proton approach may lead to dosimetric advantages to other radiation techniques. In the specific context of prostate cancer, very limited information exists in relation to the comparative effectiveness of proton therapy compared to other American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 33 radiation techniques or other modalities of treatment.251 In a 2012 SEER Medicare retrospective population based analysis, photon based IMRT was compared to proton therapy in terms of various clinical endpoints.252 No difference was found in terms of most treatment related morbidities except for a lower rate of gastrointestinal toxicity associated with IMRT when compared to proton therapy.252 The lack of evidence demonstrating clinical advantages of proton therapy over other forms of radiation and non radiation treatment has led to the ABIM Foundation Choosing Wisely statement endorsed by ASTRO: “Don’t routinely recommend proton beam therapy for prostate cancer outside a prospective clinical trial or registry.”253 It is advised that prospective clinical trials are necessary to establish the potential advantage(s) of this treatment over other therapies prior to wider adoption of this form of treatment.253 A National Cancer Institute randomized phase III trial is underway comparing proton versus photon beam radiotherapy for low and low intermediate risk prostate cancer with a health related QoL primary endpoint. 49. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering brachytherapy that it has similar effects as external beam radiotherapy with regard to erectile dysfunction and proctitis but can also exacerbate urinary obstructive symptoms. (Expert Opinion) Prospective QoL research showed that both EBRT and brachytherapy led to modest rates of bloody stools, rectal pain, and overall bowel problems.32 In addition, EBRT and brachytherapy resulted in similar rates of erectile dysfunction symptoms and overall sexuality problems.32 WHOLE GLAND CRYOSURGERY 50. Clinicians may consider whole gland cryosurgery in low and intermediate risk localized prostate cancer patients who are not suitable for either radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy due to comorbidities yet have >10 year life expectancy. (Expert Opinion) Cryosurgery can be an appropriate treatment option for men with intermediate risk prostate cancer who are not suitable candidates for prostatectomy (i.e. due to comorbidities, such as morbid obesity or a prior history of pelvic surgery),115 or who have relative contra indications to radiotherapy (i.e. due to including previous pelvic radiation, inflammatory bowel disease, or rectal disorders).115 The paucity of RCT’s evaluating cryosurgery limits knowledge regarding its comparative efficacy: only two RCT’s of cryosurgery have been reported; both included neoadjuvant ADT (whose benefit with cryosurgery has not been formally shown) in a comparison to EBRT; the multicenter RCT was aborted before half of the target accrual goal had been reached, whereas the only study that completed target accrual was a single center study. Neither RCT was powered to evaluate comparative cancer specific or overall mortality. The one completed (albeit single center) randomized trial of EBRT (with adjuvant ADT) versus cryosurgery (also with adjuvant ADT) for clinically localized disease demonstrated comparable biochemical recurrence free survival at three, five, and seven years’ follow up.76 Actuarial five year overall survival and disease specific survival were also similar. Notably, cryosurgery showed lower rate of persistent primary cancer on study mandated prostate biopsy at 36 months ( after cryotherapy vs for EBRT). However, sample size and duration of follow up was insufficient to determine whether or not cryosurgery has long term cancer specific or overall survival efficacy comparable to EBRT. The trial population was comprised principally of patients who would be categorized as intermediate risk based on Gleason score and PSA criteria ( Gleason score =6, Gleason score =7, median PSA= 9; DRE not reported), constituting the basis for the Panel’s recommendation of this modality for low and intermediate risk disease. The second randomized trial comparing cryosurgery versus EBRT was predominantly comprised of men with locally advanced disease, but also included patients with high risk localized (T2c) prostate cancer, and demonstrated long term biochemical recurrence free survival for cryosurgery to be remarkably inferior to that following EBRT ( versus , respectively, at 8 years median follow up).141Based on the inferior efficacy of cryosurgery compared to EBRT in this limited trial, it is the Panel’s judgment that high risk patients are less suited for this treatment. Moreover, high risk patients may require multimodal/salvage therapy, and clinicians should consider lymph node dissection prior to or in conjunction with cryosurgery.115 117 Prostate gland volume is a factor in patient selection in that it can be difficult to achieve uniform cold temperatures throughout the organ.77,115,117 Most investigators have not recommended treating glands that exceed 60 g with cyrosurgery. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 34 51. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that cryosurgery has similar progression free survival as did non dose escalated external beam radiation (also given with neoadjuvant hormonal therapy) in low and intermediate risk disease, but conclusive comparison of cancer mortality is lacking. (Conditional Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) One randomized clinical trial of non dose escalated EBRT versus cryosurgery has been reported for localized prostate cancer with primarily intermediate and high risk disease patients (114 and 117 in each arm respectively). Fifty eight patients in the EBRT arm received <70 Gy. The primary endpoint of short term (36 months) biochemical recurrence free survival (PSA nadir + 2 ng/ml) was comparable for cryosurgery and EBRT ( and respectively).76 Cryosurgery and radiotherapy patients alike received 6 months of neoadjuvant ADT, and secondary endpoints of actuarial 5 year overall survival (88. versus 89.) and disease specific survival ( in both groups) were also similar. Cryosurgery showed lower rate of persistent primary cancer on study mandated prostate biopsy at 36 months ( after cryotherapy versus after EBRT). However, the study was not powered to compare cancer survival or overall survival, and long term data beyond 10 years are also lacking. Of note, even though neoadjuvant ADT was consistently given with cryosurgery in the two trials that compared cryosurgery to radiotherapy, neoadjuvant ADT in cryosurgery has not been demonstrated to improve oncologic outcomes compared to cryotherapy alone. Conversely, multicenter trials comparing cryosurgery without neoadjuvant ADT to other prostate cancer treatment modalities are lacking. At three years, the cryosurgery patients reported slightly lower sexual function, slightly better urinary function, and comparable bowel function outcomes in comparison to the EBRT patients.254 52. Defects from prior transurethral resection of the prostate are a relative contraindication for whole gland cryosurgery due to the increased risk of urethral sloughing. (Clinical Principle) The urethral warming catheter may fail to fully contact the urethral mucosa in patients with a TURP defect increasing the likelihood for urethral necrosis, sloughing, dysuria, and urinary retention.115 Cryosurgery is contraindicated in patients who cannot have transrectal ultrasound guidance and monitoring of probe placement and the ablation cycle, such as surgical absence of the rectum from a previous abdominal perineal resection. 53. For whole gland cryosurgery treatment, clinicians should utilize a third or higher generation, argon based cryosurgical system for whole gland cryosurgery treatment. (Clinical Principle) Optimal oncologic and QoL outcomes of whole gland cryosurgery are achieved with a third generation, argon based cryosurgical system. In addition to a urethral warming catheter, real time ultrasound monitoring of the advancing ice ball is recommended.115 A double freeze thaw cycle is standard protocol as numerous studies have demonstrated greater likelihood of complete cell kill and treatment zone devascularization. 115,255 The advancing hyperechoic margin identified on TRUS is approximately 0oC with the inner edge representing the point of intracellular ice formation at approximately 15oC to 20oC.256 The desired nadir temperature at the prostate capsule to ensure complete cell kill is 40oC.115,256 54. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering cryosurgery that it is unclear whether or not concurrent ADT improves cancer control, though it can reduce prostate size to facilitate treatment. (Clinical Principle) The Panel is unaware of any conclusive studies evaluating whether or how the use of concurrent ADT enhances or mitigates the oncologic efficacy of cryosurgery. Nevertheless, the addition of ADT to cryosurgery is common. Two randomized trials of EBRT versus cryosurgery have been reported with primarily intermediate risk, high risk, or locally advanced disease patients. Both utilized 6 months of perioperative ADT for both treatment arms. One study of primarily localized prostate cancer reported similar actuarial 5 year overall and disease specific survival.76 The other study, terminated early for lack of accrual and consisting of primarily high risk or locally advance disease patients demonstrate an inferior 8 year biochemical disease free recurrence rate for the cryosurgery and ADT arm ( vs. ).141 For glands greater than 40 g, neoadjuvant ADT (3 6 months) should be considered due to the potential technical challenges from pubic arch interference and increased difficulty in achieving uniform temperatures.115 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 35 55. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery that erectile dysfunction is an expected outcome. (Clinical Principle) Available evidence has shown that erectile dysfunction should be expected the usual outcome for potent patients undergoing whole gland ablation. In a 2009 review of the literature, Langenhuijsen and colleagues concluded that most patients (80 ) should expect erectile dysfunction after whole gland cryosurgery and that it should not be offered to patients who desire preservation of potency.77 In one RCT sexual function outcomes for cryosurgery were inferior to EBRT.76 In non randomized cohort studies, sexual function outcomes for cryosurgery were also inferior to brachytherapy257,258 and comparable to radical prostatectomy.258 To improve the likelihood of erectile function recovery, nerve sparing and focal prostate cryosurgery has been reported.259 However, focal ablation cryosurgery lacks robust long term oncologic data. 56. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering whole gland cryosurgery about the adverse events of urinary incontinence, irritative and obstructive urinary problems. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) As with all treatments, in addition to the high risk of erectile dysfunction, patients considering cryosurgery should be informed about the risks of adverse urinary and bowel quality of life outcomes. Urinary retention after cryosurgery can persist for a few weeks and is best managed with a urethral or suprapubic catheter. Urethral sloughing at the verumontanum where the urethral warming catheter may not fully contact the mucosa apposition can result in temporary bothersome irritative symptoms in the early recovery period. Urethral fistula with third generation cryosurgical systems and thermocouple monitoring is very rare (0.) in primary treatment cases. 77,115 Permanent urinary incontinence can be expected in less than of patients. 77,115 In the only completed RCT comparing cryosurgery to EBRT, cryosurgery patients reported modestly better urinary function outcomes three years after treatment.254 In the only other randomized trial comparing cryosurgery to EBRT (which was comprised predominantly of patients with locally advanced disease, but also included patients with high risk localized disease and was aborted before reaching half of the accrual goal), cryosurgery patients reported less gastrointestinal toxicity and comparable genitourinary complaints than those who received EBRT.260 In non randomized cohort comparisons to brachytherapy, cryosurgery patients reported slightly less incontinence (11. versus 18. respectively)257 but comparable urinary function and urinary bother outcomes.258 In a non randomized comparison to radical prostatectomy, cryosurgery patients showed modestly better urinary function and bother outcomes.258 HIFU AND FOCAL THERAPY The Panel recommends that if HIFU is offered as an alternative treatment modality for localized prostate cancer, it should be done within the context of a clinical trial. Prospective randomized or comparative trials with other treatment modalities are lacking. Published five year oncologic outcomes are variable and attributable to the lack of consensus on objective response criteria.78 However, it has been recognized that the PSA nadir level after whole gland HIFU is predictive of biochemical recurrence.261 The Panel awaits the results of well designed comparative clinical trials in order to define the appropriate role of this technology in the management of localized prostate cancer. Whole prostate ablation utilizing HIFU with or without short term neoadjuvant ADT has been associated with a comparable incidence of post treatment incontinence, bladder neck/urethral stricture, and rectourethral fistulae.262 Focal therapy is based on the concept that, although prostate cancer can present as multifocal disease within the prostate gland, some patients may have a significant single index intraprostatic lesion. This index lesion may be associated with the most aggressive nidus of cancer within the gland and may be the most appropriate target for treatment. A prerequisite for focal therapy involves advanced mapping of lesions within the prostate. This can be done with a saturation biopsy or, more commonly, with MRI imaging with focused biopsy or a 3 dimensional transperineal mapping biopsy to identify appropriate patients with clinically significant disease, to provide an appropriate index target, and to provide an appropriate target for follow up scanning and biopsies.118,125 Focal therapy involves subtotal or zonal destruction of the prostate with cryosurgery, HIFU or other focally ablative techniques with the aim to minimize treatment toxicity. The Panel acknowledges that focal ablative therapy is of significant interest to patients and clinicians as it may offer benefits in terms of QoL for selected patients with a solitary well defined index lesion. However, the Panel recommends that if focal therapy is offered as an alternative treatment modality American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 36 for localized prostate cancer, it should only be done within the context of a clinical trial. Initial studies with short term follow up suggest that effective disease eradication in the treated volume can be attained.118,124 A systematic review of focal therapy has been published to provide some information regarding the clinical outcomes that can be expected with the application of focal therapy.124 However, it should be noted that long term follow up data is lacking. The Panel recognizes that concern exists about the potential for undetected and, therefore, occult untreated clinically significant multifocal disease. Confirmation of oncologic effectiveness is currently lacking and will require prospective studies with long term follow up. 57. Clinicians should inform those localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy or HIFU that these treatment options lack robust evidence of efficacy. (Expert Opinion) The Panel recognizes that novel therapies including HIFU and focal prostate ablation may provide QoL advantages for patients in comparison to surgery and radiotherapy. However, there is a lack of consensus on objective response criteria, very limited long term oncologic data, and, importantly, no comparative effectiveness data versus traditional treatments available. For patients with intermediate and high risk disease treated with HIFU, neoadjuvant ADT has been demonstrated to reduce PSA recurrence, but long term oncologic effectiveness is unknown.262 For focal therapy, initial reports with short term follow up suggest effective disease eradication in the treated area of appropriately selected patients. Studies where TRUS biopsy of the treated volume or side was performed per protocol, clinically significant cancer was identified in a minority (<) of patients.122 124 A recent consensus conference acknowledge that with increasing experience, prostate volume may not be a primary determinant for denying focal therapy.263 However, given the concern about the potential for undetected and untreated occult multifocal disease, agreement on robust endpoints and confirmation of oncologic effectiveness in larger series with longer follow up is currently lacking. When discussing such novel therapies as HIFU and focal therapy, clinicians should inform patients of the lack of robust long term oncologic data and how this relates to the patient’s own life expectancy and the significant potential for recurrence and/or new prostate cancer development. Patients should also be informed that the appropriate treatment for disease progression and the risk of metastatic progression remain undefined. 58. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients who are considering HIFU that even though HIFU is approved by the FDA for the destruction of prostate tissue, it is not approved explicitly for the treatment of prostate cancer. (Expert Opinion) Most treatments for prostate cancer, such as surgery, radiation, and cryosurgery, predate mandated regulation by the FDA. Thus, by the time the FDA started to control what treatments could be delivered, all three of these treatments were grandfathered as approved for prostate cancer. However, this was not the case for HIFU. Initial attempts were made to get HIFU approved for treatment of prostate cancer. To accomplish this, the FDA mandated a clinical trial of HIFU versus another similar treatment, and cryosurgery was chosen. However, due to poor accrual, this trial never completed. In further discussion with the FDA, it was felt that the FDA may accept an alternative indication for HIFU destruction of prostate tissue. Thus, after submitting a revised application, ultimately, on October 9th, 2015 the FDA approved HIFU for destruction of prostate tissue. To date, HIFU is still not approved for treatment of prostate cancer. As noted, no other modern treatment for prostate cancer had to obtain similar regulatory approvals. Thus, the fact that HIFU is not FDA approved for treating prostate cancer does not necessarily mean it is inferior to other treatments. However, the fact that it is not approved has implications for patients. While discussion of costs of care is beyond the purview of the Panel, the Panel did agree that patients should be informed of the lack of FDA approval for treating prostate cancer and the potential implications of this ruling. 59. Clinicians should advise localized prostate cancer patients considering HIFU that tumor location may influence oncologic outcome. Limiting apical treatment to minimize morbidity increases the risk of cancer persistence. (Moderate Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade C) Physicians may have difficulty fully ablating anterior tumors in patients with prostate volumes greater than 40 g due to the limited focal length of the HIFU technology. Post treatment MRI has demonstrated a margin of untreated anterior tissue in such patients.264 In addition, to minimize possible thermal injury to the external urethral sphincter and risk incontinence, it is common practice to initiate HIFU several millimeters proximal to the apical capsule and rely on heat diffusion to ablate the apical margin. However this can increase American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 37 the risk of incomplete treatment in patients with apical tumors. Employing a 6 mm apical safety margin Boutier et al. reported on 99 patients (mean prostate volume of 24 g) who underwent systematic prostate biopsies 3 6 months after treatment.265 Of patients with residual cancer, were in the apical sextants, in the mid gland, and in the base. Limited data suggest whole gland HIFU ablation is not optimally suited for men with a prostate >40 g due to limited focal length of technology and higher rates of urinary retention. The mean prostate volume in virtually all HIFU series is less than 40 g. This is due to the limited focal length of the technology preventing the ability to treat anterior tumor extension, increase in procedure time, and higher rates of urinary retention.78,262 TURP or neoadjuvant ADT prior to HIFU for patients with large prostates can prevent post procedure urinary retention and reduce prostate volume.78,266 60. As prostate cancer is often multifocal, clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients considering focal therapy that focal therapy may not be curative and that further treatment for prostate cancer may be necessary. (Expert Opinion) The hypothesis of treating only the dominant lesion to minimize toxicity is attractive to the patient and clinician.118,267 However, the Panel agrees that patients should be counseled that a subset of non index cancers in the prostate may have a higher grade and, if untreated, pose a risk.118 In addition, patients should be informed that there is no consensus on objective response criteria. The prevailing opinion is that patients should undergo a targeted and template post treatment biopsy approximately one year after treatment to assess for residual viable cancer. A rising PSA or suspicious areas on mpMRI should also trigger biopsy.263 Residual clinically significant cancer may be detected in targeted biopsies in a small but significant percentage of patients requiring additional therapy.123,263 Men should also be informed that after any focal or ablative treatment, follow up biopsies will still be required. V. OUTCOME EXPECTATIONS AND MANAGEMENT TREATMENT SIDE EFFECTS AND HEALTH RELATED QUALITY OF LIFE 61. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that erectile dysfunction occurs in many patients following prostatectomy or radiation, and that ejaculate will be lacking despite preserved ability to attain orgasm, whereas observation does not cause such sexual dysfunction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In counseling patients about potential QoL effects after different treatment options, it is important to provide data based on modern treatment technologies. Because surgical and radiation technologies have evolved significantly over time, QoL results from patients treated in an older era likely do not represent the results of patients treated today. In a prospective QoL study, poor erections increased from of patients (pre treatment) to at 2 years after radical prostatectomy (increase of ), to after EBRT (increase of ), and to after brachytherapy (increase of ).32 While patients after surgical or radiation treatments may lack ejaculate, many preserve the ability to attain orgasm.32 The proportions of patients who reported difficulty with orgasm from before to 2 years after treatment were to (radical prostatectomy), to (external beam radiotherapy), and to (brachytherapy). In addition, climacturia can occur in of patients after radical prostatectomy.268 Time course of sexual dysfunction differs between radical prostatectomy and radiation treatment (both EBRT and brachytherapy). Radical prostatectomy causes an immediate worsening of sexual function, with recovery over two years of time afterwards.32,52 EBRT and brachytherapy cause a more modest acute decline of sexual function after treatment, also with partial recovery thereafter.32,52 Adding ADT to prostatectomy or radiotherapy adds to the sexual dysfunction.32 Erectile dysfunction of radiotherapy plus three to six months of ADT versus radical prostatectomy was compared in a randomized trial.52 Approximately of men reported erections firm enough for intercourse at baseline, which declined to at 6 years after radical prostatectomy, after radiotherapy with ADT, and in the active monitoring group. A study of patients diagnosed in 1994 95 and assessed long term patient reported QoL showed that sexual function was similar after radical prostatectomy and EBRT from 5 to 15 years after treatment.53 Non treatment (active surveillance or watchful waiting) does not directly cause sexual dysfunction except for worsening of function and symptoms related to aging. 62. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that long term obstructive or irritative urinary problems occur in a subset of American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 38 patients following observation or active surveillance or following radiation, whereas prostatectomy can relieve pre existing urinary obstruction. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) A small but significant subset (10 ) of men with localized prostate cancer, have problematic obstructive LUTS at the time of cancer diagnosis, and a similar number will develop obstructive symptoms de novo while on observation or surveillance, or after radiotherapeutic or ablative treatment.47,51,269 271 Pre existing obstructive LUTS can be mitigated by prostatectomy, representing a notable clinical scenario wherein prostatectomy for localized prostate cancer can result in improvement rather than impairment of health related QoL. 269,271 63. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that whole gland cryosurgery is associated with worse sexual side effects and similar urinary and bowel/rectal side effects as those after radiotherapy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade B) In the single randomized clinical trial comparing EBRT and cryosurgery,76 the short term sexual function was worse for cryosurgery than EBRT.254 At 3 years, men in the cryosurgery group experienced lower sexual function scores compared with EBRT (16.0 versus 36.7, p<0.001), there was no difference in bowel function scores, and men in the EBRT group had slightly lower urinary function scores compared to cryosurgery (88.6 versus 93.0, p=0.049), but this difference is of questionable clinical significance. Longer term data comparing these side effects of cryosurgery and EBRT from this study are lacking. Three nonrandomized studies of lower quality compared cryosurgery to brachytherapy for urinary, bowel and sexual outcomes.257,258,272 The findings were not consistent. In one study patients treated with brachytherapy had significantly more incontinence and sexual dysfunction, but less bowel events, than patients treated with cryosurgery.257 In another study, patients treated with cryosurgery had more incontinence than those treated with brachytherapy (10 year rate brachytherapy 0.61 versus cryosurgery 2.44).272 In the third study, the authors did not perform a test of statistical significance for this comparison, so the results are inconclusive for bowel, urine and sexual outcomes.258 64. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary urinary incontinence occurs in most patients after prostatectomy and persists long term in a small but significant subset, more than during observation or active surveillance or after radiation. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) Urinary incontinence is a well known side effect of radical prostatectomy. The magnitude of urinary incontinence is most profound in the first few months after prostatectomy, when incontinence is commonplace, during which time QoL in the urinary domain is significantly worse after prostatectomy then it is among patients who undergo radiotherapy or surveillance (which are not associated with early incontinence). Notably, urinary incontinence subsides to be small to no bother for most men by one year post prostatectomy. Beyond one year after treatment, urinary continence is moderately (or more) bothersome for 5 of men, whereas urinary obstructive or irritative symptoms are similarly bothersome for 5 of men after radiotherapy or during active surveillance. This pattern of urinary incontinence and recovery following prostatectomy, contrasted to the pattern of obstructive and irritative symptoms during surveillance or after radiotherapy, has been demonstrated in multiple RCTs and prospective, multi center cohorts alike. 32,51,52,64,271,273 65. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients that temporary proctitis following radiation persists in some patients long term in a small but significant subset and is rare during observation or active surveillance or after prostatectomy. (Strong Recommendation; Evidence Level: Grade A) In counseling patients about potential QoL effects after different treatment options, it is important to provide data based on modern treatment technologies. Because surgical and radiation treatment technologies have evolved significantly over time, QoL results from patients treated in an older era likely do not represent the results of patients treated today. A prospective randomized trial comparing active surveillance, radical prostatectomy, and 3D conformal radiotherapy reported QoL outcomes in these three groups of patients.52 The proportion of patients who reported loose stools increased after radiotherapy (15. at baseline to 25. at 6 months, absolute increase 9.), but subsequently declined to baseline levels (15.) at 72 month follow up. Bloody stools also increased modestly after radiotherapy, from 1. at baseline to 5. at 72 months (absolute increase American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 39 4.). Another study published in 2008 of patients who received IMRT demonstrated the absolute increase of bloody stools from baseline to 2 years to be , rectal pain , bowel urgency , frequency , and incontinence .32 Increases in symptoms are similar after brachytherapy.32 These data show that radiation treatment causes proctitis affecting < of patients for most symptoms. It is possible that with more modern radiation technology (image guided radiotherapy), risk of proctitis could be less. Proctitis is not expected after radical prostatectomy or in patients who receive no treatment.52 POST TREATMENT FOLLOW UP 66. Clinicians should monitor localized prostate cancer patients post therapy with PSA, even though not all PSA recurrences are associated with metastatic disease and prostate cancer specific death. (Clinical Principle) Initial therapy for localized prostate cancer is intended to cure the cancer. Remission/possible cure is variably defined; however, a reasonable definition of long term remission and likely cure is no evidence of PSA or radiographic progression 10 years after initial localized therapy. Remission after prostatectomy is defined as nadir PSA < 0.2 ng/ml and in the context of radiation +/ ADT nadir PSA <2.0 ng/ml with testosterone recovered if previous ADT. PSA surveillance after local therapy is recommended for at least 10 years with PSA frequency determined by risk of relapse and patient preferences for monitoring. PSA monitoring beyond 10 years can be considered in men with high risk of relapse and long life expectancy. Patients should be informed that salvage therapies with potential for cure are available. Salvage therapy after prostatectomy includes radiation with or without ADT. The cure rates for salvage radiation vary according to patient risk factors, such as Gleason score, time to PSA failure after prostatectomy, and PSA doubling time. Salvage therapies after radiation are heterogeneous and include prostatectomy, HIFU, cryosurgery, and repeat radiation. Many of the post radiation salvage approaches have either high potential for toxicity or low or unclear rates for cure and the pros and cons of localized salvage therapy after radiation should be carefully considered with the patient. It is recommended that the treating physician carefully explain the goals of therapy and probability for cure. In addition the definitions of relapse after curative therapy should be outlined. It is important to educate the patient of the kinetics of testosterone recovery after ADT and expected concomitant rise in PSA. The natural history of relapsed prostate cancer is extremely variable. The important clinical metrics include time to metastasis and death from prostate cancer. The definition of metastatic prostate cancer and a clear differentiation of the difference between PSA relapse, metastasis and death from prostate cancer should be explained to the patient.274 With indolent PSA relapse or in men with competing morbidities, no additional therapy for prostate cancer may ever be needed. Patients are often focused on PSA levels and can’t differentiate between PSA relapse and death from prostate cancer. In the setting of indolent PSA relapse it is paramount that the treating physician relieve patient stress and anxiety by educating the patient and family of the long natural history of relapsed marker only prostate cancer and in most cases the low chance of death from prostate cancer within 10 years of local therapy. 67. Clinicians should inform localized prostate cancer patients of their individualized risk based estimates of post treatment prostate cancer recurrence. (Clinical Principle) An accurate assessment of the risks of failure and success for prostate cancer treatment are essential to good patient counseling and SDM. While the 5 year relative survival for prostate cancers diagnosed in 2005 to 2011 (most recent data) are for localized disease; many factors, such as tumor grade and stage as well as patient race, family history and age, play an important role in determining a personalized prognosis.275 In order to synthesize all of an individual’s personal and cancer specific characteristics, there are a number of published predictive models and nomograms offering prognosis of pathologic stage, biochemical recurrence after treatment, as well as development of metastatic disease and likelihood of survival after treatment.276 278 For the most part, these prognostic tools focus on the most common, evidence based treatment modalities, such as surgery and radiotherapy, while some attempt to predict outcomes such as biochemical recurrence and positive follow up biopsies after treatment with therapies such as cryosurgery.279,280 Genomic testing can add to risk stratification of men with adverse pathological features or biochemical recurrence following initial treatment.281 283 American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 40 68. Clinicians should support localized prostate cancer patients who have survivorship or outcomes concerns by facilitating symptom management and encouraging engagement with professional or community based resources. (Clinical Principle) Potential resources to consider include psychosocial support (referral to social worker for patients experiencing distress), local prostate cancer support groups, and national/international prostate cancer patient advocacy groups that can provide information and further support (e.g., the Urology Care Foundation, the Prostate Health Education Network, Us TOO, and ZERO the End of Prostate Cancer). Prostate cancer patients and survivors should also be offered available survivorship programs to help improve functional outcomes, psychological and other health needs. VI. FUTURE DIRECTIONS The extended time course between prostate cancer diagnosis and its eventual outcome poses challenges to the timeliness of ascertaining the efficacy of newer approaches to cancer risk ascertainment or therapeutic intervention. The maturation of evidence to provide robust guidance for optimizing care consequently lags the development of new technology. Nevertheless, emerging evidence is anticipated in several key areas, while well designed, multi center studies are urgently needed in others. Emerging evidence is anticipated from follow up analyses of the ProtecT randomized trial comparing active surveillance, prostatectomy, and radiotherapy. Data maturation may elucidate longer term outcomes (i.e. whether or not differences seen in clinical metastases between arms at 10 years will lead to differences in subsequent mortality). Subsequent analyses of ProtecT also have the potential to further clarify the role of surveillance versus treatment between low and intermediate risk cancers. Emerging evidence is also anticipated from clinical trials evaluating the risk benefit of brachytherapy compared to external radiotherapy (RTOG 0232), and the relative risk/benefit of extended compared to standard lymphadenectomy during radical prostatectomy for patients with intermediate and high risk disease. Well designed prospective studies are needed to optimize the utility of new imaging modalities (e.g., multiparametric MRI or PET with prostate specific radiotracers), to evaluate risk/benefit of ablative techniques (e.g., HIFU or focal ablative treatment), and to characterize the impact that even limited intervals of androgen deprivation may have on long term HRQOL. The need to better characterize long term HRQOL effects of ADT warrants special emphasis, as this treatment modality is part of the standard recommended radiotherapy care options for intermediate and high risk disease and is already broadly utilized. We need better evidence to council patients regarding the impact of adjuvant androgen deprivation on long term HRQOL, despite recognition that effects on vitality, libido, and cognitive status can be substantial among patients undergoing ADT monotherapy. To enable progress in prostate cancer care that is informed by the best evidence we must continue to prospectively evaluate new technologies as they are developed. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 41 REFERENCES 1. Viswanathan M, Ansari MT, Berkman ND et al: Assessing the risk of bias of individual studies in systematic reviews of health care interventions. AHRQ Publication No. 12 EHC047 EF. In: Methods Guide for Effectiveness and Comparative Effectiveness Reviews. AHRQ Publication No. 10(14) EHC063 EF. Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. January 2014. Chapters available at www.effectivehealthcare.ahrq.gov 2. Faraday M, Hubbard H, Kosiak B et al: Staying at the cutting edge: a review and analysis of evidence reporting and grading; the recommendations of the American Urological Association. BJU Int 2009; 104: 294. 3. Hsu C and Sandford BA: The Delphi technique: making sense of consensus. Practical Assessment, Research & Evaluation 2007; 12: 1. 4. D'Amico AV, Whittington R, Malkowicz SB et al: Biochemical outcome after radical prostatectomy, external beam radiation therapy, or interstitial radiation therapy for clinically localized prostate cancer. JAMA. 1998; 280:969. 5. National Comprehensive Cancer Network: Prostate Cancer Version 3.2016. National Comprehensive Cancer Network 2016. 6. Epstein JI, Walsh PC, Carmichael M et al: Pathologic and clinical findings to predict tumor extent of nonpalpable (stage T1c) prostate cancer. JAMA 1994; 271:368. 7. Tosoian JJ, Mamawala M, Epstein JI et al: Intermediate and longer term outcomes from a prospective active surveillance program for favorable risk prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:3379. 8. Iremashvili V, Pelaez L, Manoharan M et al: Pathologic prostate cancer characteristics in patients eligible for active surveillance: a head to head comparison of contemporary protocols. Eur Urol 2012; 62: 462. 9. Cooperberg MR, Pasta DJ, Elkin EP et al: The University of California, San Francisco Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment Score: a straightforward and reliable preoperative predictor of disease recurrence after radical prostatectomy. J Urol 2005; 173: 1938. 10. Klaassen Z, Singh AA, Howard LE et al: Is clinical stage T2c prostate cancer an intermediate or high risk disease? Cancer 2015; 121:1414. 11. Zumsteg ZS, Spratt DE, Pei I et al: A new risk classification system for therapeutic decision making with intermediate risk prostate cancer patients undergoing dose escalated external beam radiation therapy. Eur Urol 2013; 64: 895. 12. Zumsteg ZS, Chen Z, Howard LE et al: Number of unfavorable intermediate risk factors predicts pathologic upstaging and prostate cancer specific mortality following radical prostatectomy: results from the SEARCH database. Prostate 2016; 77: 154. 13. Mathieu R, Moschini M, Beyer B et al: Prognostic value of the new Grade Groups in Prostate Cancer: a multi insitutional European validation study. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2017; Epub ahead of print. 14. Cooperberg MR, Freedland SJ, Pasta DJ et al: Multiinstitutional validation of the UCSF Cancer of the Prostate Risk Assessment for prediction of recurrence after radical prostatectomy. Cancer 2006; 107: 2384. 15. Fowler FJ, Jr., Gallagher PM, Bynum JP et al: Decision making process reported by Medicare patients who had coronary artery stenting or surgery for prostate cancer. J Gen Intern Med 2012; 27: 911. 16. Wennberg JE: Unwarranted variations in healthcare delivery: implications for academic medical centres. BMJ 2002; 325: 961. 17. O'Connor AM, Llewellyn Thomas HA, and Flood AB: Modifying unwarranted variations in health care: shared decision making using patient decision aids. Health Aff (Millwood) 2004; Suppl Variation: VAR63. 18. Stacey D, Legare F, Col NF et al: Decision aids for people facing health treatment or screening decisions. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2014; 1: CD001431. 19. Légaré F, Stacey D, Turcotte S et al: Interventions for improving the adoption of shared decision making by healthcare professionals. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014; 9:CD006732. 20. Violette PD, Agoritsas T, Alexander P et al: Decision aids for localized prostate cancer American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 42 treatment choice: systematic review and meta analysis. Ca Cancer J Clin 2015; 65: 239. 21. Légaré F, Stacey D, Kryqoruchko J et al: Interventions for improving the adoption of shared decision making by healthcare professionals. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2010; 5: CD006732. 22. Institute of Medicine: Crossing the quality chasm: a new health system for the 21st century. Washington, DC: The National Academies Press, 2001. 23. Makarov DV, Chrouser K, Gore JL et al: AUA white paper on implementation of shared decision making into urological practice. Urology Practice 2016; 3: 355. 24. Zhong S, Yan X, Wu Y et al: Body mass index and mortality in prostate cancer patients: a dose response meta analysis. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2016; 19: 122. 25. Islami F, Moreira DM, Boffetta P et al: A systematic review and meta analysis of tobacco use and prostate cancer mortality and incidence in prospective cohort studies. Eur Urol 2014; 66:1054. 26. Jiang J, Teng Y, Fan Z et al: Does obesity affect the surgical outcome and complication rates of spinal surgery? A meta analysis. Clin Orthop Relat Res 2014; 472:968. 27. Si HB, Zeng Y, Shen B et al: The influence of body mass index on the outcomes of primary total knee arthroplasty. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc 2015; 23: 1824. 28. Kunutsor SK, Whitehouse MR, Blom AW et al: Patient related risk factors for periprosthetic joint infection after total joint arthroplasty: a systematic review and meta analysis. PLoS One 2016; 11:e0150866. 29. Suskind AM, Walter LC, Jin C et al: Impact of frailty on complications in patients undergoing common urological procedures: a study from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality Improvement database. BJU Int 2016; 117: 836. 30. Lascano D, Pak JS, Kates M et al: Validation of a frailty index in patients undergoing curative surgery for urologic malignancy and comparison with other risk stratification tools. Urol Onc 2015; 33: e1. 31. Patel HD, Ball MW, Cohen JE et al: Morbidity of urologic surgical procedures: an analysis of rates, risk factors, and outcomes. Urology 2015; 85: 552. 32. Sanda MG, Dunn RL, Michalski J et al: Quality of life and satisfaction with outcome among prostate cancer survivors. N Engl J Med 2008; 358:1250. 33. Montgomery JS, Gayed BA, Hollenbeck BK et al: Obesity adversely affects health related quality of life before and after radical retropubic prostatectomy. J Urol 2006;176: 257. 34. Mitchell JM: Urologists use of intensity modulated radiation therapy for prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2013; 369: 1629. 35. Fowler FJ Jr., McNaughton Collins M, Albertsen PC et al: Comparison of recommendations by urologists and radiation oncologists for treatment of clinically localized prostate cancer. JAMA 2000; 283: 3217. 36. Tyson MD, Graves AJ, O’Neil B et al: Urologist level correlation in the use of observation for low and high risk prostate cancer. JAMA Surg 2017; 152: 27. 37. Aizer AA, Paly JJ and Efstathiou JA. Multidisciplinary care and management selection in prostate cancer. Semin Radiat Oncol 2013;23:157. 38. Valicenti RK, Gomella LG, El Gabry EA et al: The multidisciplinary clinic approach to prostate cancer counseling and treatment. Semin Urol Oncol 2000; 18:188. 39. Gomella LG: Prostate cancer: the benefits of multidisciplinary prostate cancer care. Nat Rev Urol 2012;9:360. 40. Jang TL, Bekelman JE, Liu Y et al: Physician visits prior to treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer. Arch Intern Med 2010; 170: 440. 41. Donovan JL, Hamdy FC, Lane JA et al: Patient reported outcomes after monitoring, surgery, or radiotherapy for prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:1425. 42. van den Bergh RC, Essink Bot ML, Roobol MJ et al: Anxiety and distress during active surveillance for early prostate cancer. Cancer 2009; 115:3868. 43. Barocas DA, Alvarez J, Resnick MJ et al: Association between radiation therapy, surgery, American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 43 or observation for localized prostate cancer and patient reported outcomes after 3 years. JAMA 2017; 317: 1126. 44. Chen RC, Basak R, Meyer AM et al: Association between radical prostatectomy, external beam radiotherapy, brachytherapy, or active surveillance and patient reported quality of life among men with localized prostate cancer. JAMA 2017; 317: 1141. 45. Fujita K, Landis P, McNeil BK et al: Serial prostate biopsies are associated with an increased risk of erectile dysfunction in men with prostate cancer on active surveillance. J Urol 2009;182:2664. 46. Hilton JF, Blaschko SD, Whitson JM et al: The impact of serial prostate biopsies on sexual function in men on active surveillance for prostate cancer. J Urol 2012; 188:1252. 47. Steineck G, Helgesen F, Adolfsson J et al: Quality of life after radical prostatectomy or watchful waiting. N Engl J Med 2002; 347:790. 48. Bokhorst LP, Valdagni R, Rannikko A et al: A decade of active surveillance in the PRIAS study: an update and evaluation of the criteria used to recommend a switch to active treatment. Eur Urol 2016; 70:954. 49. Loeb S, Folkvaljon Y, Makarov DV et al: Five year nationwide follow up study of active surveillance for prostate cancer. Eur Urol 2015; 67:233. 50. Hamdy FC, Donovan JL, Lane JA et al: 10 year outcomes after monitoring, surgery, or radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:1415. 51. Wilt TJ, Brawer MK, Jones KM: Radical prostatectomy versus observation for localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2012; 367:203. 52. Donovan JL, Hamdy FC, Lane JA et al: ProtecT study group. Patient reported outcomes after monitoring, surgery, or radiotherapy for prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2016; 375:1425. 53. Resnick MJ, Koyama T, Fan KH et al: Long term functional outcomes after treatment for localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2013; 368:436. 54. Nam RK, Cheung P, Herschorn S et al: Incidence of complications other than urinary incontinence or erectile dyscunction after radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy for prostate cancer: a population based cohort study. Lancet Oncol 2014; 15: 223. 55. Murray L, Henry A, Hoskin P et al: Second primary cancers after radiation for prostate cancer: a systematic review of the clinical data and impact of treatment technique. Radiother Oncol 2014; 110; 213. 56. American Urological Association: Ten things physicians and patients should question. Choosing Wisely 2016. http://www.choosingwisely.org/societies/american urological association/ 57. American Society of Clinical Oncology: Ten things physicians and patietns should question. Choosing Wisely 2013. http://www.choosingwisely.org/societies/american society of clinical oncology/ 58. D'Amico AV, Chen MH, Renshaw AA et al: Risk of prostate cancer recurrence in men treated with radiation alone or in conjunction with combined or less than combined androgen suppression therapy. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2979. 59. Kibel AS, Ciezki JP, Klein EA et al: Survival among men with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with radical prostatectomy or radiation therapy in the prostate specific antigen era. J Urol 2012; 187:1259. 60. Cooperberg MR, Vickers AJ, Broering JM et al: Comparative risk adjusted mortality outcomes after primary surgery, radiotherapy, or androgen deprivation therapy for localized prostate cancer. Cancer 2010; 116: 5226. 61. Marina O, Gustafson GS, Kestin LL, Brabbins DS, Chen PY, Ye H, Martinez AA, Ghilezan MI, Wallace M, Krauss DJ. Comparison of dose escalated, image guided radiotherapy vs. dose escalated, high dose rate brachytherapy boost in a modern cohort of intermediate risk prostate cancer patients. Brachytherapy 2014; 13:59. 62. Eggener SE, Scardino PT, Walsh PC et al: Predicting 15 year prostate cancer specific mortality after radical prostatectomy. J Urol 2011; 185: 869. 63. Ross HM, Kryvenko ON, Cowan JE et al: Do adenocarcinomas of the prostate with Gleason score (GS) ≤6 have the potential to metastasize to lymph nodes? Am J Surg Pathol 2012;36:1346. 64. Kasperzyk JL, Shappley WV 3rd, Kenfield SA et al: Watchful waiting and quality of life among American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 44 prostate cancer survivors in the Physicians’ Health Study. J Urol 2011; 186: 1862. 65. Shappley WV 3rd, Kenfield SA, Kasperzyk JL et al: Prospective study of determinants and outcomes of deferred treatment or watchful waiting among men with prostate cancer in a nationwide cohort. J Clin Oncol 2009; 27: 4980. 66. Klotz L, Vesprini D, Sethukavalan P et al: Long term follow up of a large active surveillance cohort of patients with prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33:272. 67. Macleod LC, Ellis WJ, Newcomb LF et al: Timing of adverse prostate cancer reclassification on first surveillance biopsy: results from the Canary Prostate Cancer Active Surveillance Study. J Urol 2016; Epub ahead of print. 68. Newcomb LF, Thompson IM Jr., Boyer HD et al: Outcomes of active surveillance for the management of clinically localized prostate cancer in the prospective, multi institutional Canary PASS cohort. J Urol 2016; 195:313. 69. Corcoran NM, Casey RG, Hong MK et al: The ability of prostate specific antigen (PSA) density to predict an upgrade in Gleason score between initial prostate biopsy and prostatectomy diminishes with increasing tumour grade due to reduced PSA secretion per unit tumour volume. BJU Int 2012; 110: 36. 70. San Francisco IF, Werner L, Regan MM et al: Risk stratification and validation of prostate specific antigen density as independent predictor of progression in men with low risk prostate cancer during active surveillance. J Urol 2011; 185: 471. 71. Bhindi B, Kulkarni GS, Finelli A et al: Obesity is associated with risk of progression for low risk prostate cancers managed expectantly. Eur Urol 2014; 66: 841. 72. Ploussard G, de la Taille A, Bayoud Y et al: The risk of upstaged disease increases with body mass index in low risk prostate cancer patients eligible for active surveillance. Eur Urol 2012; 61: 356. 73. Sundi D, Faisal FA, Trock BJ et al: Reclassification rates are higher among African American men than Caucasians on active surveillance. Urology 2015; 2015. 85:155. 74. Sundi, D, Ross AE, Humphreys EB et al: African American men with very low risk prostate cancer exhibit adverse oncologic outcomes after radical prostatectomy: should active surveillance still be an option for them? J Clin Oncol 2013; 31:2991. 75. Jones CU, Hunt D, McGowan DG et al: Radiotherapy and short term androgen deprivation for localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2011; 365:107. 76. Donnelly BJ, Saliken JC, Brasher PM et al: A randomized trial of external beam radiotherapy versus cryoablation in patients with localized prostate cancer. Cancer 2010; 116:323. 77. Langenhuijsen JF, Broers EMP and Vergunst H: Cryosurgery for prostate cancer: an update on clinical results of modern cryotechnology. Eur Urol 2009; 55:76. 78. Lukka H, Waldron T, Chin J et al: High intensity focused ultrasound for prostate cancer: a systematic review. Clin Oncol 2011; 23: 117. 79. Schroder FH, Hugosson J, Roobol MJ et al: Prostate cancer mortality at 11 years of follow up. N Engl J Med 2012; 366: 981. 80. Sammon JD, Abdollah F, Reznor G et al: Patterns of declining use and the adverse effect of primary androgen deprivation on all cause mortality in elderly men with prostate cancer. Eur Urol 2015; 68: 32. 81. Karnes RJ, Bergstralh EJ, Davicioni E et al” Validation of a genomic classifier that predicts metastasis following radical prostatectomy in an at risk patient population. J Urol 2013; 190:2047. 82. Klein EA, Yousefi K, Haddad Z et al: A genomic classifier improves prediction of metastatic disease within 5 years after surgery in node negative high risk prostate cancer patients managed by radical prostatectomy without adjuvant therapy. Eur Urol 2015; 67:778. 83. Ross AE, Johnson MH, Yousefi K et al: Tissue based genomics augments post prostatectomy risk stratification in a natural history cohort of intermediate and high risk men. Eur Urol 2016; 69:157. 84. Klein EA, Haddad Z, Yousefi K et al: Decipher genomic classifier measured on prostate biopsy predicts metastasis risk. Urology 2016;90:148. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 45 85. Nguyen PL, Martin NE, Choeurng V et al: Utilization of biopsy based genomic classifier to predict distant metastasis after definitive radiation and short course ADT for intermediate and high risk prostate cancer. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2017; Epub ahead of print. 86. Klein EA, Cooperberg MR, Magi Galluzzi C et al: A 17 gene assay to predict prostate cancer aggressiveness in the context of Gleason grade heterogeneity, tumor multifocality, and biopsy undersampling. Eur Urol 2014; 66:550. 87. Cullen J, Rosner IL, Brand TC et al: A biopsy based 17 gene genomic prostate score predicts recurrence after radical prostatectomy and adverse surgical pathology in a racially diverse population of men with clinically low and intermediate risk prostate cancer. Eur Urol 2015; 68:123. 88. Brand TC, Zhang N, Crager MR et al: Patient specific meta analysis of 2 clinical validation studies to predict pathologic outcomes in prostate cancer using the 17 gene genomic prostate score. Urology 2016; 89:69. 89. Cuzick J, Berney DM, Fisher G et al: Prognostic value of a cell cycle progression signature for prostate cancer death in a conservatively managed needle biopsy cohort. Br J Cancer 2012; 106:1095. 90. Cuzick J, Stone S, Fisher G et al: Validation of an RNA cell cycle progression score for predicting death from prostate cancer in a conservatively managed needle biopsy cohort. Br J Cancer 2015; 113:382. 91. Sartor O, Eisenberger M, Kattan MW et al: Unmet needs in the prediction and detection of metastases in prostate cancer. Oncologist 2013; 18: 549. 92. Eberhardt SC, Carter S, Casalino DD et al: ACR Appropriateness Criteria prostate cancer—pretreatment detection, staging, and surveillance. J Am Coll Radiol 2013; 10: 83. 93. Hedge JV, Mulkern RV, Panych LP et al: Multiparametric MRI of prostate cancer: an update on state of the art technique and their performance in detecting and localizing prostate cancer. J Magn Reson Imaging. 37: 1035. 94. Conde Moreno AJ, Herrando Parreño G, Muelas Soria R et al: Whole body diffusion weighted magnetic resonance imaging (WB DW MRI) vs choline positron emission tomography computed tomography (choline PET/CT) for selecting treatments in recurrent prostate cancer. Clin Transl Oncol 2016; Epub ahead of print. 95. Barrio M, Fendler WP, Czernin J et al: Prostate specific membrane antigen (PSMA) ligands for diagnosis and therapy of prostate cancer. Expert Rev Mol Diagn 2016; 16: 1177. 96. Bill Axelson A, Holmberg L, Ruutu M, et al: Radical prostatectomy versus watchful waiting in early prostate cancer. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:1708. 97. Paulson DF, Lin GH, Hinshaw W et al: Radical surgery versus radiotherapy for adenocarcinoma of the prostate. J Urol 1982; 128:502. 98. Tewari A, Divine G, Chang P et al: Long term survival in men with high grade prostate cancer: a comparison between conservative treatment, radiation therapy and radical prostatectomy a propensity scoring approach. J Urol 2007; 177:911. 99. Albertsen PC, Hanley JA, Penson DF et al: 13 year outcomes following treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer in a population based cohort. J Urol 2007;177:932. 100. Merglen A, Schmidlin F, Fioretta G et al: Short and long term mortality with localized prostate cancer. Arch Intern Med 2007; 167:1944. 101. Zelefsky MJ, Eastham JA, Cronin AM et al: Metastasis after radical prostatectomy or external beam radiotherapy for patients with clinically localized prostate cancer: a comparison of clinical cohorts adjusted for case mix. J Clin Oncol 2010; 28:1508. 102. Abdollah F, Schmitges J, Sun M et al: Comparison of mortality outcomes after radical prostatectomy versus radiotherapy in patients with localized prostate cancer: a population based analysis. Int J Urol 2012; 19:836. 103. Hoffman RM, Koyama T, Fan KH et al: Mortality after radical prostatectomy or external beam radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2013; 105:711. 104. Lee JY, Cho KS, Kwon JK et al: A competing risk analysis of cancer specific mortality of initial treatment with radical prostatectomy versus American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 46 radiation therapy in clinically localized high risk prostate cancer. Ann Surg Oncol 2014; 21:4026. 105. Sooriakumaran P, Nyberg T, Akre O et al: Comparative effectiveness of radical prostatectomy and radiotherapy in prostate cancer: observational study of mortality outcomes. BMJ 2014; 348: g1502. 106. Degroot JM, Brundage MD, Lam M et al: Prostate cancer specific survival differences in patients treated by radical prostatectomy versus curative radiotherapy. Can Urol Assoc J 2013; 7:E299. 107. Sun M, Sammon JD, Becker A et al: Radical prostatectomy vs radiotherapy vs observation among older patients with clinically localized prostate cancer: a comparative effectiveness evaluation. BJU Int 2014;113: 200. 108. Wallis CJ, Saskin R, Choo R et al: Surgery versus radiotherapy for clinically localized prostate cancer: a systematic review and meta analysis. Eur Urol 2016; 70:21. 109. D’Amico AV, Chen MH, Renshaw A et al: Long term follow up of a randomized trial of radiation with or without androgen deprivation therapy for localized prostate cancer. JAMA 2015; 314: 1291. 110. Al Mamgani A, van Putten WL, Heemsbergen WD et al: Update of Dutch multicenter dose escalation trial of radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008; 72: 980. 111. Dearnaley DP, Jovic G, Syndikus I et al: Escalated dose versus control dose conformal radiotherapy for prostate cancer: long term results from the MRC RT01 randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2014; 15: 464. 112. Kuban DA, Tucker SL, Dong L et al: Long term results of the, M. D. Anderson randomized dose escalation trial for prostate cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008; 70: 67. 113. Beckendorf V, Guerif S, Le Prise E et al: 70 Gy versus 80 Gy in localized prostate cancer: 5‑year results of GETUG 06 randomized trial. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011; 80: 1056. 114. Bolla M, Maingon P, Carrie C et al: Short androgen suppression and radiation dose escalation for intermediate and high risk localized prostate cancer: results of EORTC trial 22991. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34: 1748. 115. Babaian RJ, Donnelly B, Bahn D et al: Best practice statement on cryosurgery for the treatment of localized prostate cancer. J Urol 2008; 180:1993. 116. Cohen JK, Miller RJ Jr., Ahmed S et al: Ten year biochemical disease control for patients with prostate cancer treated with cryosurgery as primary therapy. Urology 2008; 71:515. 117. Donnelly BJ, Saliken JC, Ernst DS et al: Prospective trial of cryosurgical ablation of the prostate: five year results. Urology 2002; 60:645. 118. van der Poel H, Klotz L, Andriole G et al: Role of active surveillance and focal therapy in low and intermediate risk prostate cancers. World J Urol 2015;33:907. 119. Huang CC, Kong MX, Zhou M et al: Gleason score 3 + 4=7 prostate cancer with minimal quantity of gleason pattern 4 on needle biopsy is associated with low risk tumor in radical prostatectomy specimen. Am J Surg Pathol 2014; 38:1096. 120. Kır G, Seneldir H and Gumus E: Outcomes of Gleason score 3 + 4 = 7 prostate cancer with minimal amounts (<) vs ≥ of Gleason pattern 4 tissue in needle biopsy specimens. Ann Diagn Pathol 2016; 20:48. 121. Prasad SM, Eggener SE, Lipsitz SR et al: Effect of depression on diagnosis, treatment, and mortality of men with clinically localized prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014; 32: 2471. 122. Truesdale MD, Cheetham PJ, Hruby GW et al: An evaluation of patient selection criteria on predicting progression free survival after primary focal unilateral nerve sparing cryoablation for prostate cancer: recommendations for followup. Cancer J 2010; 16:544. 123. Ahmed HU, Hindley RG, Dickinson L et al: Focal therapy for localized unifocal and multifocal prostate cancer: a prospective development study Lancet Oncol 2012; 13:622. 124. Valerio M, Ahmed HU, Emberton M et al: The role of focal therapy in the management of localized prostate cancer: a systematic review. Eur Urol 2014; 66:732. 125. Klotz L: Active surveillance and focal therapy for low intermediate risk prostate cancer. Transl Androl Urol 2015; 4:342. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 47 126. Wollin DA and Makarov DV: Guideline of guidelines: imaging of localized prostate cancer. BJU Int 2015; 116: 526. 127. Lin K, Szabo Z, Chin BB et al: The value of a baseline bone scan in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer. Clin Nucl Med 1999; 24: 579. 128. Merdan S, Womble PR, Miller DC et al: Toward better use of bone scans among men with early stage prostate cancer. Urology 2014; 84: 793. 129. Oesterling JE: Using PSA to eliminate the staging radionuclide bone scan. Significant economic implications. Urol Clin North Am 1993; 20: 705. 130. O’Dowd GJ, Veltri RW, Oroco R et al: Update on the appropriate staging evaluation for newly diagnosed prostate cancer. J Urol 1997; 158: 687. 131. Levran Z, Gonzalez JA, Diokno AC et al: Are pelvic computed tomography, bone scan and pelvic lymphadenectomy necessary in the staging of prostatic cancer? Br J Urol 1995; 75: 778. 132. Fox JJ, Schoder H and Larson SM: Molecular imaging of prostate cancer. Curr Opin Urol 2012; 22: 320. 133. Kelloff GJ, Hoffman JM, Johnson B et al: Progress and promise of FDG PET imaging for cancer patient management and oncologic drug development. Clin Cancer Res 2005; 11: 2785. 134. Bolla M, Collette L, Blank L et al: Long term results with immediate androgen suppression and external irradiation in patients with locally advanced prostate cancer (an EORTC study): a phase III randomised trial. Lancet 2002; 360: 103. 135. Bolla M, de Reijke TM, Van Tienhoven G et al: Duration of androgen suppression in the treatment of prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2009; 360: 2516. 136. Horwitz EM, Bae K, Hanks GE at al: Ten year follow up of radiation therapy oncology group protocol 92 02: a phase III trial of the duration of elective androgen deprivation in locally advanced prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008; 26: 2497. 137. Warde P, Mason M, Ding K et al: Combined androgen deprivation therapy and radiation therapy for locally advanced prostate cancer: a randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2011; 378: 2104. 138. Widmark A, Klepp O, Solberg A et al: Endocrine treatment, with or without radiotherapy, in locally advanced prostate cancer (SPCG 7/SFUO 3): an open randomised phase III trial. Lancet 2009; 373: 301. 139. Albertsen PC, Hanley JA, Gleason DF et al: Competing risk analysis of men aged 55 to 74 years at diagnosis managed conservatively for clinically localized prostate cancer. JAMA 1998; 280: 975. 140. Abdollah F, Sun M, Schmitges J et al: Competing risks mortality after radiotherapy vs. observation for localized prostate cancer: a population based study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012; 84: 95. 141. Chin JL , Al Zahrani AA , Autran Gomez AM et al: Extended followup oncologic outcome of randomized trial between cryoablation and external beam therapy for locally advanced prostate cancer (T2c T3b). J Urol 2012: 188:1170. 142. Thomsen FB, Brasso K, Christensen IJ et al: Survival benefit of early androgen receptor inhibitor therapy in locally advanced prostate cancer: Long term follow up of the SPCG 6 study. Eur J Cancer 2015; 51:1283. 143. Potosky AL, Haque R, Cassidy Bushrow AE et al: Effectiveness of primary androgen deprivation therapy for clinically localized prostate cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014; 32: 1324. 144. Lu Yao GL, Albertson PC, Moore DF et al: Survival following primary androgen deprivation therapy among men with localized prostate cancer JAMA 2008;300:173. 145. Lu Yao GL, Albertson PC, Moore DF et al: Fifteen year survival outcomes following primary androgen deprivation therapy for localized prostate cancer. JAMA Intern Med 2014; 174:1460. 146. Kote Jarai Z, Leongamornlert D, Saunders E et al: BRCA2 is a moderate penetrance gene contributing to young onset prostate cancer: implications for genetic testing in prostate cancer patients. Br J Cancer 2011; 105: 1230. 147. Gallagher DJ, Gaudet MM, Pal P et al: Germline BRCA mutations denote a clinicopathologic subset American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 48 of prostate cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2010; 16: 2115. 148. Robinson D, Van Allen EM, Wu YM et al: Integrative clinical genomics of advanced prostate cancer. Call 2015; 161: 1215. 149. Pritchard CC, Mateo J, Walsh MF et al: Inherited DNA repair gene mutations in men with metastatic prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 2016; 375: 443. 150. Chun FK, Epstein JI, Ficarra V, et al. Optimizing performance and interpretation of prostate biopsy: a critical analysis of the literature. Eur Urol 2010; 58:851. 151. NCCN Guidelines: Prostate cancer early detection [v.2.2012]. National Comprehensive Cancer Network Web site. http://www.nccn.org/professionals/physician_gls/pdf/prostate_detection.pdf. 152. Heidenreich A, Bellmunt J, Bolla M et al: EAU guidelines on prostate cancer. Part 1: screening, diagnosis, and treatment of clinically localised disease. Eur Urol 2011; 59:61. 153. Wright JL and Ellis WJ: Improved prostate cancer detection with anterior apical prostate biopsies. Urol Oncol 2006; 24: 492. 154. Scattoni V, Zlotta A, Montironi R et al: Extended and saturation prostatic biopsy in the diagnosis and characterisation of prostate cancer: a critical analysis of the literature. Eur Urol 2007; 52:1309. 155. Scattoni V, Zlotta AR, Nava L et al: Prostatic transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guided biopsy schemes and TRUS prostatic lesion guided biopsies. Eur Urol Suppl 2002;1(6):28. 156. Remzi M, Fong YK, Dobrovits M et al: The Vienna nomogram: validation of a novel biopsy strategy defining the optimal number of cores based on patient age and total prostate volume. J Urol 2005; 174:1256. 157. Eichler K, Hempel S, Wilby J et al: Diagnostic value of systematic biopsy methods in the investiga tion of prostate cancer: a systematic review. J Urol 2006; 175: 1605. 158. Jones JS, Patel A, Schoenfield L et al: Saturation technique does not improve cancer detection as an initial prostate biopsy strategy. J Urol 2006; 175:485. 159. Onik G, Miessau M and Bostwick DG: Three dimensional prostate mapping biopsy has a potentially significant impact on prostate cancer management. J Clin Oncol 2009; 27:4321. 160. Ahmed HU, Hu Y, Carter T et al: Characterizing clinically significant prostate cancer using template prostate mapping biopsy. J Urol 2011; 186:458. 161. Itatani R, Namimoto T, Atsuji et al: Negative predictive value of multiparametric MRI for prostate cancer detection: Outcome of 5 year follow up in men with negative findings on initial MRI studies. Eur J Radiol 2014; 83: 1740. 162. Pokorny MR, de Rooij M, Duncan E et al: Prospective study of diagnostic accuracy comparing prostate cancer detection by transrectal ultrasound guided biopsy versus magnetic resonance (MR) imaging with subsequent MR guided biopsy in men without previous prostate biopsies. Eur Urol 2014; 66: 22. 163. Wysock JS, Mendhiratta N, Zattoni F et al: Predictive value of negative 3T multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging of the prostate on 12 core biopsy results. BJU Int 2016; 118: 515. 164. Walton Diaz A, Shakir NA, George AK et al: Use of serial multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging in the management of patients with prostate cancer on active surveillance. Urol Oncol 2015;33:202. 165. Rais Bahrami S, Türkbey B, Rastinehad AR et al: Natural history of small index lesions suspicious for prostate cancer on multiparametric MRI: recommendations for interval imaging follow up. Diagn Interv Radiol 2014; 20:293. 166. Okotie OT, Roehl KA, Han M et al: Characteristics of prostate cancer detected by digital rectal examination only. Urology 2007;70:1117. 167. Bul M, Zhu X, Valdagni R et al: Active surveillance for low risk prostate cancer worldwide: the PRIAS study. Eur Urol 2013; 63:597 168. Dall'Era MA, Konety BR, Cowan JE et al: Active surveillance for the management of prostate cancer in a contemporary cohort. Cancer 2008; 112:2664. 169. Kakehi Y, Kamoto T, Shiraishi T et al: Prospective evaluation of selection criteria for active surveillance in Japanese patients with stage American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 49 T1cN0M0 prostate cancer. Jpn J Clin Oncol 2008; 38:122. 170. Roemeling S, Roobol MJ, de Vries SH et al: Active surveillance for prostate cancers detected in three subsequent rounds of a screening trial: characteristics, PSA doubling times, and outcome. Eur Urol 2007; 51: 1244. 171. Barayan GA, Brimo F, Bégin LR et al: Factors influencing disease progression of prostate cancer under active surveillance: a McGill University Health Center cohort. BJU Int 2014; 114: E99. 172. Rubio Briones J, Iborra I, Ramírez M et al: Obligatory information that a patient diagnosed of prostate cancer and candidate for an active surveillance protocol must know. Actas Urol Esp 2014; 38: 559. 173. Godtman RA, Holmberg E, Khatami A et al: Outcome following active surveillance of men with screen detected prostate cancer. Results from the Göteborg randomised population based prostate cancer screening trial. Eur Urol 2013; 63:101. 174. Thomsen FB, Røder MA, Hvarness H et al: Active surveillance can reduce overtreatment in patients with low risk prostate cancer. Dan Med J 2013; 60: A4575. 175. Selvadurai ED, Singhera M, Thomas K et al: Medium term outcomes of active surveillance for localised prostate cancer. Eur Urol 2013; 64:981. 176. Hayes JH, Ollendorf DA, Pearson SD et al: Active surveillance compared with initial treatment for men with low risk prostate cancer: a decision analysis. JAMA 2010; 304: 2373. 177. Bokhorst LP, Lepistö I, Kakehi Y et al: Complications after prostate biopsies in men on active surveillance and its effects on receiving further biopsies in the Prostate Cancer Research International: Active Surveillance (PRIAS) study. BJU Int 2016; 118:366. 178. Morash C, Tey R, Agbassi C et al: Active surveillance for the management of localized prostate cancer: guideline recommendations. Can Urol Assoc J 2015; 9: 171. 179. Chen RC, Rumble RB, Loblaw DA et al: Active surveillance for the management of localized prostate cancer (Cancer Care Ontario guideline): American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice guideline endorsement. J Clin Oncol 2016; 34:2182. 180. Schoots IG, Petrides N, Giganti F et al: Magnetic resonance imaging in active surveillance of prostate cancer: a systematic review. Eur Urol 2015; 67:627. 181. American Urological Association and Society of Abdominal Radiology: ProstateMRI and MRI targeted biopsy in patients with prior negative biopsy. American Urological Association 2016; https://www.auanet.org/common/pdf/education/clinical guidance/Consensus Statement Prostate MRI and MRI Targeted Biopsy.pdf 182. American College of Radiology: PI RADS Prostate imaging—reporting and data system. American College of Radiology 2015; https://www.acr.org/~/media/ACR/Documents/PDF/QualitySafety/Resources/PIRADS/PIRADS%20V2.pdf 183. Weinreb JC, Barentsz JO, Choyke PL et al: PI RADS Prostate Imaging Reporting and Data System:2015,Version 2. Eur Urol 2016; 69:16. 184. Alchin DR, Murphy D and Lawrentschuk N: Risk factors for Gleason score upgrading following radical prostatectomy: a review of the current literature. Minerva Urol Nefrol 2016; Epub ahead of print. 185. Berglund RK, Masterson TA, Vora KC et al: Pathological upgrading and up staging with immediate repeat biopsy in patients eligible for active surveillance. J Urol 2008; 180:1964. 186. Agarwal G, Buethe D, Russell C et al: Long term survival and predictors of disease reclassification in patients on an active surveillance protocol for prostate cancer. Can J Urol 2016; 23: 8215. 187. Iremashvili V, Kava BR, Manoharan M et al: Is it time to revisit the role of prostate specific antigen kinetics in active surveillance for prostate cancer? Urology 2016; 95:139. 188. Popiolek M, Rider JR, Andrén O et al: Natural history of early, localized prostate cancer: a final report from three decades of follow up. Eur Urol 2013; 63:428. 189. Aus G, Hugosson J and Norlén L: Long term survival and mortality in prostate cancer treated with noncurative intent. J Urol 1995;154:460. 190. Lu Yao GL and Yao SL: Population based study of long term survival in patients with clinically localised prostate cancer. Lancet 1997; 349:906. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 50 191. Chodak GW, Thisted RA, Gerber GS et al: Results of conservative management of clinically localized prostate cancer. N Engl J Med 1994; 330:242. 192. Schroder FH, Hermanek P, Denis L et al: The TNM classification of prostate cancer. Prostate Suppl 1992; 4:129. 193. Whitmore WF Jr.: Natural history and staging of prostate cancer. Urol Clin North Am 1984; 11:205. 194. Yaxley JW, Coughlin GD, Chambers SK et al: Robot assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy versus open radical retropubic prostatectomy: early outcomes from a randomised controlled phase 3 study. Lancet 2016 388:1057. 195. Alemozaffar M, Sanda M, Yecies D et al: Benchmarks for operative outcomes of robotic and open radical prostatectomy: results from the health professionals follow up study. Eur Urol 2015; 67(3): 432. 196. Krambeck AE, DiMarco DS, Rangel LJ et al: Radical prostatectomy for prostatic adenocarcinoma: a matched comparison of open retropubic and robot assisted techniques. BJU Int 2009; 103:448. 197. Wallerstedt A, Tyritzis SI, Thorsteinsdottir T et al: Short term results after robot assisted laparoscopic radical prostatectomy compared to open radical prostatectomy. Eur Urol 2015; 67:660. 198. Punnen S, Cowan JE, Chan JM et al: Long term health related quality of life after primary treatment for localized prostate cancer: results from the CaPSURE registry. Eur Urol 2015; 68:600. 199. Schulman CC, Debruyne FMJ, Forster G et al: 4 year follow up results of a European prospective randomized study on neoadjuvant hormonal therapy prior to radical prostatectomy in T2 3N0M0 prostate cancer. Eur Urol 2000; 38:706. 200. Soloway MS, Pareek K, Sharifi R et al: Neoadjuvant androgen ablation before radical prostatectomy in cT2bNxMo prostate cancer: 5 year results. J Urol 2002; 167:112. 201. Aus G, Abrahamsson G, Ahlgren G et al: Three month neoadjuvant hormonal therapy before radical prostatectomy: a 7 year follow up of a randomized controlled trial. BJU Int 2002; 90:561. 202. Klotz LH, Goldenberg SL, Jewett MA et al: Long term follow up of a randomized trial of 0 versus 3 months of neoadjuvant androgen ablation before radical prostatectomy. J Urol 2003;170:791. 203. Pietzak EJ and Eastham JA: Neoadjuvant treatment of high risk, clinically localized prostate cancer prior to radical prostatectomy. Curr Urol Rep 2016; 17: 37. 204. Alemozaffar M, Regan MM, Cooperberg MR et al: Prediction of erectile function following treatment for prostate cancer. JAMA 2011; 306:1205. 205. Wright JL, Lin DW, Cowan JE et al: Quality of life in young men after radical prostatectomy. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2008; 11: 67. 206. Brajtbord JS, Punnen S, Cowan JE et al: Age and baseline quality of life at radical prostatectomy Who has the most to lose? J Urol 2014; 192: 396. 207. Le JD, Cooperberg MR, Sadetsky N et al: Changes in specific domains of sexual function and sexual bother after radical prostatectomy. BJU Int 2010; 106: 1022. 208. Michl UH, Friedrich MG, Graefen M et al: Prediction of postoperative sexual function after nerve sparing radical retropubic prostatectomy. J Urol 2006; 176: 227. 209. Briganti A, Capitanio U, Chun FK et al: Prediction of sexual function after radical prostatectomy. Cancer 2009; 115: 3150. 210. Novara G, Ficarra V, D'Elia C et al: Preoperative criteria to select patients for bilateral nerve sparing robotic assisted radical prostatectomy. J Sex Med 2010; 7:839. 211. Namiki S, Kwan L, Kagawa Singer M et al: Urinary quality of life after prostatectomy or radiation for localized prostate cancer: a prospective longitudinal cross cultural study between Japanese and U.S. men. Urology 2008; 71: 1103. 212. Wei JT, Dunn RL, Marcovich R et al: Prospective assessment of patient reported urinary continence after radical prostatectomy. J Urol 2000; 164:744. 213. Mandel P, Graefen M, Michl U et al: The effect of age on functional outcomes after radical prostatectomy. Urol Oncol 2015; 33: 203.e11. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 51 214. Briganti A, Larcher A, Abdollah F et al: Updated nomogram predicting lymph node invasion in patients with prostate cancer undergoing extended pelvic lymph node dissection: the essential importance of percentage of positive cores. Eur Urol 2012; 61:480. 215. Mattei A, Fuechsel FG, Bhatta Dhar N et al: The template of primary landing sites of the prostate should be revisited: results of a multimodality mapping study. Eur Urol 2008; 53:118. 216. Klein EA, Kattan M, Stephenson A et al: How many lymphadenectomies does it take to cure one patient? Eur Urol 2008; 53:13. 217. Bader P, Burkhard FC, Markwalder R et al: Disease progression and survival of patients with positive lymph nodes after radical prostatectomy. Is there a chance of cure? J Urol 2003; 169:849. 218. Allaf ME, Palapattu GS, Trock BJ et al: Anatomical extent of lymph node dissection: impact on men with clinically localized prostate cancer. J Urol 2004; 172:1840. 219. Daneshmand S, Quek ML, Stein JP et al: Prognosis of patients with lymph node positive prostate cancer following radical prostatectomy: long term results J Urol 2004; 172:2252. 220. Berglund RK, Sadetsky N, DuChane J et al: Limited pelvic lymph node dissection at the time of radical prostatectomy does not affect 5 year failure rates for low, intermediate and high risk prostate cancer: results from CaPSURE. J Urol 2007; 177: 526. 221. DiMarco DS, Zincke H, SeboTJ et al: The extent of lymphadenectomy for pTXN0 prostate cancer does not affect prostate cancer outcome in the prostate specific antigen era. J Urol 2005; 173:1121. 222. Masterson TA, Bianco FJ, Jr., Vickers AJ et al: The association between total and positive lymph node counts, and disease progression in clinically localized prostate cancer. J Urol 2006; 175:1320. 223. Bhatta Dhar N, Reuther AM, Zippe C et al: No difference in six year biochemical failure rates with or without pelvic lymph node dissection during radical prostatectomy in low risk patients with localized prostate cancer. Urology 2004; 63:528. 224. Abdollah F, Schmitges J, Sun M et al: A critical assessment of the value of lymph node dissection at radical prostatectomy: A population based study. Prostate 2011; 71: 1587. 225. Cagiannos I, Karakiewicz P, Eastham JA et al: A preoperative nomogram identifying decreased risk of positive pelvic lymph nodes in patients with prostate cancer. J Urol 2003; 170:1798. 226. Lee HJ and Kane CJ: How to minimize lymphoceles and treat clinically symptomatic lymphoceles after radical prostatectomy. Curr Urol Rep 2014; 15:445. 227. Heers H, Laumeier T, Olbert PJ et al: Lymphoceles post radical retropubic prostatectomy: a retrospective evaluation of epidemiology, risk factors and outcome. Urol Int 2015;95:400. 228. Thompson IM Jr, Tangen CM, Paradelo J et al: Adjuvant radiotherapy for pathologically advanced prostate cancer: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2006; 296:2329. 229. Feng M, Hanlon AL, Pisansky TM et al: Predictive factors for late genitourinary and gastrointestinal toxicity in patients with prostate cancer treated with adjuvant or salvage radiotherapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2007; 68:1417. 230. Van Cangh PJ, Richard F, Lorge F et al: Adjuvant radiation therapy does not cause urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy: results of a prospective randomized study. J Urol 1998; 159: 164. 231. Mohler JL, Armstrong AJ, Bahnson RR et al: Prostate cancer, version 1.2016. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2016; 14:19. 232. Zaorsky NG, Harrison AS, Trabulsi EJ et al: Evolution of advanced technologies in prostate cancer radiotherapy. Nat Rev Urol 2013; 10: 565. 233. Nilsson S, Norlén BJ and Widmark A: A systematic overview of radiation therapy effects in prostate cancer. Acta Oncol 2004; 43: 316. 234. Hsu IC, Yamada Y, Assimos DG et al: ACR Appropriateness Criteria high dose rate brachytherapy for prostate cancer. Brachytherapy 2014; 13: 27. 235. Nguyen PL, Aizer A, Assimos DG et al: ACR Appropriateness Criteria® Definitive External American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 52 Beam Irradiation in stage T1 and T2 prostate cancer. Am J Clin Oncol 2014; 37:278. 236. Abdel Wahab M, Mahmoud O, Merrick G et al: ACR Appropriateness Criteria® external beam radiation therapy treatment planning for clinically localized prostate cancer. J Am Coll Radiol 2012; 9:233. 237. Frank SJ, Arterbery VE, Hsu IC et al: American College of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria permanent source brachytherapy for prostate cancer. Brachytherapy 2011; 10:357. 238. Dirix P, Joniau S, Van den Bergh L et al: The role of elective pelvic radiotherapy in clinically node negative prostate cancer: a systematic review. Radiother Oncol 2014; 110: 45. 239. Hanks GE, Pajak TF, Porter A et al: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Phase III trial of long term adjuvant androgen deprivation after neoadjuvant hormonal cytoreduction and radiotherapy in locally advanced carcinoma of the prostate: the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Protocol 92 02. J Clin Oncol 2003; 21: 3972. 240. Roach M 3rd, Hanks G, Thames H Jr. et al: Defining biochemical failure following radiotherapy with or without hormonal therapy in men with clinically localized prostate cancer: recommendations of the RTOG ASTRO Phoenix Consensus Conference. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006; 65: 965. 241. Asbell SO, Krall JM, Pilepich MV et al: Elective pelvic irradiation in stage A2, B carcinoma of the prostate: analysis of RTOG 77 06. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1988; 15: 1307. 242. Pommier P, Chabaud S, Lagrange JL et al: Is there a role for pelvic irradiation in localized prostate adenocarcinoma? Update of the long term survival results of the GETUG 01 randomized study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2016; 96: 759. 243. Nguyen PL: Rethinking the balance of risk and benefit of androgen deprivation therapy for intermediate risk prostate cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2016; 94: 975. 244. Yoon FH, Gardner SL, Danjoux C et al: Testosterone recovery after prolonged androgen suppression in patients with prostate cancer. J Urol 2008; 180: 1443. 245. Hegemann NS, Guckenberger M, Belka C et al: Hypofractionated radiotherapy for prostate cancer. Radiat Oncol 2014; 9:275. 246. Dearnaley D, Syndikus I, Sumo G et al: Conventional versus hypofractionated high dose intensity modulated radiotherapy for prostate cancer: preliminary safety results from the CHHiP randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2012; 13: 43. 247. Wilkins A, Mossop H, Syndikus I et al: Hypofractionated radiotherapy versus conventionally fractionated radiotherapy for patients with intermediate risk localised prostate cancer: 2 year patient reported outcomes of the randomised, non inferiority, phase 3 CHHiP trial. Lancet Oncol 2015; 16:1605. 248. Dearnaley D, Syndikus I, Mossop H et al: Conventional versus hypofractionated high dose Intensity modulated radiotherapy for prostate cancer: 5 year outcomes of the randomised, non inferiority, phase 3 CHHiP trial. Lancet Oncol 2016; 17:1047. 249. Pham YD, Kittel JA, Reddy CA et al: Outcomes for prostate glands >60 cc treated with low dose rate brachytherapy. Brachytherapy 2016; 15: 163. 250. Davis BJ, Horwitz EM, Lee WR et al: American Brachytherapy Society consensus guidelines for transrectal ultrasound guided permanent prostate brachytherapy. Brachytherapy 2012; 11: 6. 251. Yamoah K and Johnstone PA: Proton beam therapy: clinical utility and current status in prostate cancer. Onco Targets Ther 2016;9:5721. 252. Sheets NC, Goldin GH, Meyer AM et al. Intensity modulated radiation therapy, proton therapy, or conformal radiation therapy and morbidity and disease control in localized prostate cancer. JAMA 2012; 307:1611. 253. Hahn C, Kavanagh B, Bhatnagar A et al: Choosing wisely: the American Society for Radiation Oncology's top 5 list. Pract Radiat Oncol 2014; 4:349. 254. Robinson JW, Donnelly BJ, Siever JE et al: A randomized trial of external beam radiotherapy versus cryoablation in patients with localized prostate cancer: quality of life outcomes. Cancer 2009; 115:4695. Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 53 255. Baust JG, Gage AA, Klossner D et al: Issues critical to the successful application of cryosurgical ablation of the prostate. Technol Cancer Res Streat 2007; 6:97. 256. Larson TR, Rrobertson DW, Corica A et al: In vivo interstitial temperature mapping of the human prostate during cryosurgery with correlation to histopathologic outcomes. Urology 2000; 55:547. 257. Williams SB, Lei Y, Nguyen PL et al: Comparative effectiveness of cryotherapy vs brachytherapy for localised prostate cancer. BJU Int 2012; 110:E92. 258. Malcolm JB, Fabrizio MD, Barone BB et al: Quality of life after open or robotic prostatectomy, cryoablation or brachytherapy for localized prostate cancer. J Urol 2010; 183:1822. 259. Lambert EH, Bolte K, Masson P et al: Focal cryosurgery: encouraging health outcomes for unifocal prostate cancer. Urology 2007; 69:1117. 260. Chin JL, Ng CK, Touma NJ et al: Randomized trial comparing cryoablation and external beam radiotherapy for T2C T3B prostate cancer. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2008; 11:40. 261. Mearini L, D’Urso L, Collura D et al: High intensity focused ultrasound for the treatment of prostate cancer: a prospective trial with long term follow up. Scandinavian J Urol 2015;49: 267. 262. Sumitomo M, Hayashi M, Watanabe T et al: Efficacy of short term androgen deprivation with high intensity focused ultrasound in the treatment of prostate cancer in Japan. Urology 2008; 72:1335. 263. Donaldson IA, Alonzi R, Barratt D et al: Focal therapy: patients, interventions, and outcomes a report from a consensus meeting. Eur Urol 2015; 67:771. 264. Kirkham AP, Emberton M, Hoh IM et al: MR imaging of prostate after treatment with high intensity focused ultrasound. Radiology 2008; 246:833. 265. Boutier R, Girouin N, Cheikh AB et al: Location of residual cancer after transrectal high intensity focused ultrasound ablation for clinically localized prostate cancer. BJU Int 2011; 108:1776. 266. Vallancien G, Prapotnich D, Cathelineau X et al: Transrectal focused ultrasound combined with transurethral resection of the prostate for the treatment of localized prostate cancer: feasibility study. J Urol 2004; 171: 2265. 267. Noguchi M, Stamey TA, McNeal JE et al: Prognostic factors for multifocal prostate cancer in radical prostatectomy specimens: lack of significance of secondary cancers. J Urol 2003; 170:459. 268. Capogrosso P, Ventimiglia E, Serino A et al: Orgasmic dysfunction after robot assisted versus open radical prostatectomy. Eur Urol 2016; 70: 223. 269. Schwartz EJ and Lepor H: Radical retropubic prostatectomy reduces symptom scores and improves quality of life in men with moderate and severe lower urinary tract symptoms. J Urol 1999; 161:1185. 270. Giberti C, Chiono L, Gallo F et al: Radical retropubic prostatectomy versus brachytherapy for low risk prostatic cancer: a prospective study. World J Urol 2009; 27:607. 271. Chang P, Regan MM, Ferrer M et al: Relief of urinary symptom burden after primary prostate cancer treatment. J Urol 2016; 197: 376. 272. Jarosek SL, Virnig BA, Chu H et al: Propensity weighted long term risk of urinary adverse events after prostate cancer surgery, radiation, or both. Eur Urol 2015; 67: 273. 273. Ferrer M, Guedea F, Suarez JF et al: Quality of life impact of treatments for localized prostate cancer: cohort study with a 5 year follow up. Radiother Oncol 2013; 108:306. 274. Pound CR, Partin AW, Eisenberger MA et al: Natural history of progression after PSA elevation following radical prostatectomy. JAMA 1999; 281: 1591. 275. Siegel RL, Miller KD and Jemal Ahmedin: Cancer statistics 2016. CA Cancer J Clin 2016; 66: 7. 276. Prostate Calculator 2017; http://www.prostatecalculator.org/. 277. Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center: Prostate cancer nomograms. 2017; https://www.mskcc.org/nomograms/prostate. 278. Fox Chase Cancer Center: Nomograms. 2010; http://labs.fccc.edu/nomograms/nomogram.php?id=29&audience=1&status=1, American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 54 279. Levy DA, Pisters LL and Jones JS: Primary cryoablation nadir prostate specific antigen and biochemical failure. J Urol 2009; 182:931. 280. Levy DA, Ross AE, ElShafei et al: Definition of biochemical success following primary whole gland prostate cryoablation. J Urol 2014; 192:1380. 281. Ross AE, Den RB, Yousefi K et al: Efficacy of post operative radiation in a prostatectomy cohort adjusted for clinical and genomic risk. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis 2016; 19: 277. 282. Freedland SJ, Choeurgn V, Howard L et al: Utilization of a genomic classifier for prediction of metastasis following salvage radiation therapy after radical prostatectomy. Eur Urol 2016; 70: 588. 283. Den RB, Yousefi K, Trabulsi EJ et al: Genomic classifier identifies men with adverse pathology after radical prostatectomy who benefit from adjuvant radiation therapy. J Clin Oncol 2015; 33: 944. American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 55 Localized Prostate Cancer Panel, Consultants and Staff Martin G. Sanda, MD (Chair) The Emory Clinic, Inc. Atlanta, GA Jeffrey A. Cadeddu, MD (Vice Chair) UT Southwestern Dallas, TX Ronald C. Chen, MD, MPH University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill Chapel Hill, NC Tony Crispino (Patient Advocate) UsTOO Las Vegas Las Vegas, NV Stephen J. Freedland, MD Vedars Sinai Medical Center Los Angeles, CA Kirsten Greene, MD University of California San Francisco San Francisco, CA Laurence H. Klotz, MD Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre Ontario, Canada Danil V. Makarov, MD NYU Langone Medical Center New York, NY Joel B. Nelson, MD University of Pittsburgh Medical Center Pittsburgh, PA George Rodrigues, MD, PhD London Health Sciences Centre Ontario, Canada Howard M. Sandler, MD Cedars Sinai Medical Center Los Angeles, CA Mary Ellen Taplin, MD Dana Farber Cancer Institute Boston. MA Consultants James Reston, PhD Staff Heddy Hubbard, PhD, MPH, RN, FAAN Abid Khan, MHS, MPP Erin Kirkby, MS Shalini Selvarajah, MD Nenellia K. Bronson, MA Leila Rahimi Brooke Bixler, MPH CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURES All panel members completed COI disclosures. Disclosures listed include both topic and non topic related relationships. Consultant/Advisor: Martin G. Sanda, Movember, Prostate Cancer Foundation; Jeffrey A. Cadeddu, Levita Magnetics; Stephen J. Freedland, Dendreon, Medication, Janssen, Bayer, Astellas, Sanofi, ProteoMediX, Parallel 6, MDxHealth, Oncell MDx Laurence H. Klotz, Ferring, Amgen, Profound Medical; Danil Makarov, Castlight Health, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (FDA); Howard M. Sandler, Eviti; Mary Ellen Taplin, Medivation, Janssen, Tokai, Bayer, Dendreon, Sanofi Meeting Participant or Lecturer: Stephen J. Freedland, Janssen, Astellas; Laurence H. Klotz, Astellas, Medivation, Abbvie, Janssen, Profound Medical; Howard M. Sandler, Janssen, Sanofi Scientific Study or Trial: Martin G. Sanda, Movember, Prostate Cancer Foundation; Jeffrey A. Cadeddu, Levita Magnetics; Ronald C. Chen, Accuray Inc.; Stephen J. Freedland, GSK, Dendreon, Janssen, Bayer, Myriad, GenomeDX, Metabolon, MDxHealth, Progenika, Oncell MDx; Laurence H. Klotz, Ferring, Amgen, Astellas, Medivation, Abbvie, Janssen, Profound Medical; Mary Ellen Taplin, Medivation, Tokai, Bayer, Genetech Leadership Position: George Rodrigues, ASTRO; Investment Interest: Jeffrey A. Cadeddu, Titan Medical Inc, Transenterix; Mary Ellen Taplin, Janssen Health Publishing: George Rodrigues, Demos Medical Publishers; Howard M. Sandler, Caribou Publishing American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer 56 Peer Reviewers We are grateful to the persons listed below who contributed to the Guideline by providing comments during the peer review process. Their reviews do not necessarily imply endorsement of the Guideline. Peter C. Albertsen, MD Andrew Armstrong, MD Richard J. Babaian, MD Rodney Breau, MD Joseph L. Chin, MD Peter E. Clark, MD Matthew R. Cooperberg, MD Anthony V. D’Amico, MD Adam Dicker, MD James A. Eastham, MD Phillip G. Febbo, MD Antonio Finelli, MD David A. Ginsberg, MD B. Mayer Grob, MD Frederick A. Gulmi, MD Blake D. Hamilton, MD Celestia S. Higano, MD Jim C. Hu, MD Suneil Jain, MD Christopher J. Kane, MD Melissa R. Kaufman, MD Louis R. Kavoussi, MD Adam S. Kibel, MD Bridget F. Koontz, MD Deborah J. Lightner, MD Andrew Loblaw, MD Stacy Loeb, MD Viraj A. Master Joshua J. Meeks, MD, PhD Drew Moghanaki, MD Matthew E. Nielsen, MD David F. Penson, MD Thomas J. Polascik, MD Glenn M. Preminger, MD Ashley E. Ross, MD Edward M. Schaeffer, MD Roger E. Schultz, MD Alan W. Shindel, MD Kirill Shiranov, MD Chandru P. Sundaram, MD Christopher D. Tessier, MD J. Brantley Thrasher, MD J. Stuart Wolf, Jr., MD DISCLAIMER This document was written by the Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer Guideline Panel of the American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc., which was created in 2014. The Practice Guidelines Committee (PGC) of the AUA selected the committee chair. Panel members were selected by the chair. Membership of the Panel included specialists in urology/medical oncology/radiation oncology with specific expertise on this disorder. The mission of the Panel was to develop recommendations that are analysis based or consensus based, depending on Panel processes and available data, for optimal clinical practices in the treatment of clinically localized prostate cancer. Funding of the Panel was provided by the AUA. Panel members received no remuneration for their work. Each member of the Panel provides an ongoing conflict of interest disclosure to the AUA. While these guidelines do not necessarily establish the standard of care, AUA seeks to recommend and to encourage compliance by practitioners with current best practices related to the condition being treated. As medical knowledge expands and technology advances, the guidelines will change. Today these evidence based guidelines statements represent not absolute mandates but provisional proposals for treatment under the specific conditions described in each document. For all these reasons, the guidelines do not pre empt physician judgment in individual cases. Treating physicians must take into account variations in resources, and patient tolerances, needs, and preferences. Conformance with any clinical guideline does not guarantee a successful outcome. The guideline text may include information or recommendations about certain drug uses (‘off label‘) that are not approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), or about medications or substances not subject to the FDA approval process. AUA urges strict compliance with all government regulations and protocols for prescription and use of these substances. The physician is encouraged to carefully follow all available prescribing information about indications, contraindications, precautions and warnings. These guidelines and best practice statements are not in tended to provide legal advice about use and misuse of these substances. Although guidelines are intended to encourage best practices and potentially encompass available technologies with sufficient data as of close of the literature review, they are necessarily time limited. Guidelines cannot include evaluation of all data on emerging technologies or management, including those that are FDA approved, which may immediately come to represent accepted clinical practices. For this reason, the AUA does not regard technologies or management which are too new to be addressed by this guideline as necessarily experimental or investigational. Copyright © 2017 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc.® American Urological Association (AUA) / American Society for Radiation Oncology (ASTRO) / Society of Urologic Oncology (SUO) Clinically Localized Prostate Cancer


CODE OFCONDUCTWHO SHOULD READ THE CODE?This Code of Conduct (the “Code”) applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals and agents of NYU Langone Health.WHO IS COVERED UNDER NYU LANGONE HEALTH?“NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, NYU Langone MSO Inc., NYU Imaging Inc., and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Code has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; therefore, for purposes of this Code, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded.This Code is not a contract of employment nor does it create any rights or expectations regarding continued employment or benefits at NYU Langone Health. All employment is deemed at will (i.e., can be terminated by the employee or NYU Langone Health at any time, with or without cause) unless a written contract of employment exists setting forth a specific duration and executed by an authorized NYU Langone Health signatory. Notwithstanding the statements in this Code, NYU Langone Health remains free to repeal, modify, or amend the Code, and to change wages, benefits, and all other working conditions, without prior notice.NYU Langone Health 2024 printingNYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 1TABLE OF CONTENTSIntroduction•Letter from the Dean & CEO2•NYU Langone Health’s Mission & Values3Standards of Conduct•Foundation Statement Your Personal Commitment4•Quality of Care Commitment to Our Patients4•Conduct with Patients, Colleagues, & Others5•Social Media and Communications6•Emergency Care (EMTALA)7•Pharmaceuticals, Prescription Drugs, & Controlled Substances7•Environmental Health & Safety8Complying with Laws, Regulations, & Policies •Laws, Regulations, & Policies8•Responsibilities of Managers & Supervisors9•Accurate & Truthful Documentation9•Anti Kickback & Physician Self Referral10•Investigations, Accreditations, Surveys, Audits, or Inquiries11Safeguarding Protected & Confidential Information•Privacy & Confidentiality11•Protection & Use of NYU Langone Health’s Assets13Political Participation & Government Affairs •Political Participation13Relationships with Vendors, Consultants, & Other Outside Entities •Conflicts of Interest14Research Integrity & Responsible Conduct •Scientific & Clinical Research16•Priorities in Research Compliance16Reporting Concerns & Enforcement •Responsibility to Report17•Policy on Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity18•Non Retaliation Policy18•Disciplinary Action19NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 2LETTER FROM THE DEAN & CEO Dear Colleague,I am proud to introduce our Code of Conduct, a key element of our Corporate Compliance Program. The Code supports our mission, values, and policies to promote and ensure conduct that is honest, ethical, and lawful. It is important that you understand your personal obligations under this Code.NYU Langone Health has a long standing commitment to excellence, which includes demonstrating the highest level of ethical and legal conduct and daily decision making when interacting with our patients, our colleagues, our community, and our business partners. Our Code explains this commitment in greater detail and provides guidance on how to make ethical decisions that are reflective of our core principles.This Code applies to every member of the NYU Langone Health community: trustees, officers, faculty, employees, medical staff, students, residents, fellows, volunteers, trainees, consultants, vendors, contractors, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone.While the Code is comprehensive, it cannot cover every situation you might encounter. It’s up to each individual to seek advice when faced with a question about any of the principles outlined in the Code. As a member of the NYU Langone community, you are also required to familiarize yourself with this Code on at least an annual basis.Additionally, it is your responsibility to report any matters you believe to be a violation of the Code; federal, state, or local laws and regulations; or NYU Langone Health policies. If you become aware of a potential violation, you should immediately report it to your supervisor, through the NYU Langone Health confidential Compliance Helpline at 866 NYU 1212, or online (form available on Inside Health), or directly to the Compliance Office. We will not tolerate any form of retaliation against you for reporting any compliance concerns in good faith.As you read through this Code, you will see that compliance is the responsibility of every member of the NYU Langone community. Collectively, it takes each of us to achieve the standards set forth in this Code. We are all responsible for being stewards of the institution by embodying the values that define our culture and foster excellence in everything we do. I am asking each of you to join me in making a personal commitment to uphold this Code of Conduct without exception.Sincerely,Robert I. Grossman, MDDean and CEO NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 3NYU LANGONE HEALTH’S MISSION & VALUESThe mission of NYU Langone Health is to serve, to teach, and to discover. We are committed to making world class contributions that place service to human health at the center of an academic culture devoted to excellence in research, patient care, and education. We shall provide the facilities and personnel necessary to carry out these functions in the most professional manner possible, and in all activities, we shall maintain the highest standards of excellence and consideration for the dignity of the individual.EducationIn educating the physician, we shall merge the best traditions of the past with the most relevant content and vital teaching methods of the present. Our goals are to instill in each student a respect for their profession and the people they serve, to provide for the continuing education of physicians throughout their careers, and to foster an atmosphere of learning for all staff throughout NYU Langone Health.ResearchWe shall stimulate research into the fundamental basis of life processes, as well as the nature of diseases and disorders and the means by which they can be overcome. We shall encourage collaboration among independent researchers, interpret the value of research to patients and the general public, and foster a spirit of inquiry throughout NYU Langone Health.Patient CareWe shall place the patient at the center of all efforts. In providing direct patient care, we shall serve patients from everywhere we offer care and those referred from other areas of the nation and the world. We shall provide professional care and treatment for patients in accordance with high standards of medical service, offer programs of health education, and maintain a climate in which each member of the healthcare team can learn and carry out their responsibilities in the most professional manner possible.ValuesWe have set the standards for patient care, scientific research, and medical education. We have built a tradition of service that has touched the lives of countless people in the New York metropolitan area, across the country, and around the world. Our strength as an institution is based on the individual acts and the spirit of dedication of our physicians, healthcare professionals, scientists, employees, and students.To ensure that we remain at the forefront of the medical profession and a place where people can build successful careers, we have adopted a set of values that are designed to reflect not only our history, but also our commitment to the future. The values are meant to complement, not replace, our existing professional codes of ethics and responsibilities. They are intended to be used as a means to enhance the way we deliver services to our patients, their families, visitors, and our colleagues.We believe the five values—Performance, Respect, Integrity, Diversity, and Excellence—will enable us to build on our tradition of service, to foster a culture of collaboration and teamwork, and to better meet the needs of those we serve.•Performance Accountable, responsible, and dedicated to learning and growing professionally by collaborating with one another.•Respect Communicate openly and professionally, share resources, listen to one another, and recognize one another’s contributions.•Integrity Foster a culture of the highest ethical standards, trust, and honesty.•Diversity Create a community of cultural competence and opportunity by embracing a wide breadth of resources, skills, ideas, and knowledge.•Excellence Passionate about promoting quality, innovation, and safety to achieve world class patient care, education, and research. NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 4FOUNDATION STATEMENT — YOUR PERSONAL COMMITMENT All members of the NYU Langone Health community are expected to make decisions that are guided by principles of honesty, integrity, high ethical standards, and a personal commitment to the mission and values of NYU Langone Health. QUALITY OF CARE — COMMITMENT TO OUR PATIENTS We are committed to providing high quality, compassionate, and skilled patient care in a safe and healing environment. Everyone, even those not working directly with patients, has a responsibility to:•Provide patients with care that is medically necessary, appropriate to the situation, safe, and in compliance with professionally recognized standards of care;•Involve patients in decisions regarding their care;•Adhere to infection prevention and control practices;•Maintain complete and accurate records of patient information that fulfill the requirements of NYU Langone Health policies, accreditation standards, and applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations;•Identify opportunities to improve service and quality of care;•Ensure every patient receives important information about their rights, including, but not limited to, informational materials prepared by the State of New York and the NYU Langone Health Notice of Privacy Practices;•Maintain current credentials, expertise, education, training, and competence to provide patient care;•Seek clarification from your supervisor about your employment responsibilities or NYU Langone Health policies that you do not understand;•Courteously and professionally assist patients and visitors in person, on the phone, and by other means of communication;•Protect patients’ privacy and confidentiality. Protected Health Information (PHI) should only be used or disclosed as permitted under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and state laws and regulations;•Assist patients in communicating compliance or quality of care related issues to the Office of Patient Relations, to the Compliance Office directly or via the confidential Compliance Helpline as described on page 16;•Inform management of any issues that may interfere with your ability to fulfill your professional responsibilities;•Report patient care incidents and issues that do not appear to meet, or that violate, NYU Langone Health’s standards of quality. You should report such violations to your supervisor, the Compliance Office directly, the confidential Compliance Helpline as described on page 16, or if appropriate, to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, The Joint Commission, New York State Department of Health, or other regulatory agencies. We will not take disciplinary action against you if you report a concern in good faith;•Take pride in your job and do it to the best of your ability. Every member of the NYU Langone Health community contributes to our success, our mission, and our ability to provide quality patient care, cutting edge research, and education to future physicians; and•Fulfill your personal responsibilities to report quality measures. You should promptly and efficiently fulfill your responsibilities regarding compliance with, but not limited to, the standards provided below: Conditions of Participation for Hospitals (Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services) Hospitals—Minimum Standards (New York State Public Health Law) Standards of The Joint Commission, Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, College of American Pathologists, Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, and other accrediting/certifying agencies Requirements for accreditation by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME) Standards adopted by the Magnet Recognition Program, recognizing excellence in nursing service Measures provided by the National Quality Forum Leapfrog Group Hospital Safety Grade Measures Recommendations and guidelines issued by other regulatory and voluntary groups identified as appropriate by NYU Langone HealthNYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 5CONDUCT WITH PATIENTS, COLLEAGUES, & OTHERS NYU Langone Health’s values should guide us in our relationships with patients and their families, visitors, colleagues, vendors, and others. We need every member of the NYU Langone Health community’s commitment to uphold the reputation of NYU Langone Health and to:•Create the best possible experience for our patients, their families, and visitors.•Take the initiative to find safe, creative, and effective solutions to patient related concerns.•Maintain positive work relationships with colleagues, vendors, and others with whom we do business. Demonstrate respect for your colleagues by communicating positively with them, whether oral or written, and treating them with dignity in your interactions.•Treat each person respectfully and as a unique individual. NYU Langone Health will not tolerate discrimination against or harassment of anyone on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender and/or gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital or partnership status, parental or caregiver status, familial status, national origin, ethnicity, citizenship status, veteran or military status, age, disability, height or weight.•Follow the specific guidelines, in addition to this Code of Conduct, outlined in NYU Langone Health policies, and the policies applicable to your position in the NYU Langone Health community, such as the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program Contract, GME House Staff Manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, Staff Handbook, NYU Langone Health Human Resources Policies and Procedures, Compliance & Privacy Policies and Procedures, By Laws and Rules and Regulations of the Medical and Dental Staff, Policies and Procedures for Graduate Medical Education, Patient Care and Safety Standards, and the Administrative Policy and Procedures Manual.•Refrain from engaging in disruptive behavior. Disruptive behavior is any inappropriate behavior, confrontation, or conflict, ranging from verbal abuse to physical, sexual, or other forms of harassment that interferes with an individual’s ability to carry out their responsibilities or creates a hostile work environment. While employees are permitted to engage in protected conduct under the National Labor Relations Act and certain whistleblower activity under limited circumstances, as prescribed under NY Labor Law, all members of the NYU Langone Health community are expected to demonstrate professionalism and respect. Examples of disruptive behavior include, but are not limited to: behavior that is offensive, obscene, defamatory, threatening, intimidating, harassing, shaming, bullying, retaliatory, discriminatory, hateful, racist, sexist, or results in public humiliation; behaviors that, by virtue of their intensity, repetitiveness, or content, otherwise endanger or compromise the health, safety, or well being of oneself, another person, or the NYU Langone Health community; comments about lack of competence in front of patients or colleagues that are not conveyed in an appropriate environment; any behavior that fails to support a culture of safety. •Encourage a positive work environment, free from disruptive behavior by: promoting respectful, courteous, and collegial relationships with all; encouraging the reporting and investigation of disruptive behavior in a non retaliatory environment; and implementing the necessary actions to remedy disruptive behaviors.•Refrain from speaking or creating the impression of speaking on behalf of NYU Langone Health without permission from the Office of Communications and Marketing.•Refrain from disclosing confidential or proprietary information, including internal communications meant for members of the NYU Langone Health community, or emails that contain business, financial, or other Confidential Information of NYU Langone Health or any NYU Langone Health community member. NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 6•Abide by the social media and communications standard, as described in the next section at all times.SOCIAL MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONSAs an NYU Langone Health workforce member, you are an extension of the NYU Langone brand. It is expected that you act in an appropriate, professional and respectful manner when you provide or communicate information to either the general public or the NYU Langone Health community. Use the following guidelines in social media and external communications:•Keep the content you post appropriate and accurate.•Be respectful of others and employ common sense. Remember that your personal use of social media has the potential to impact the organization’s overall reputation. Make clear that the information conveyed is in your individual and personal capacity. If you do mention, share or tag NYU Langone Health in any posts or comments, clearly identify as a colleague by using #teamNYULangone. Do not make any false or misleading statements about NYU Langone Health or members of the NYU Langone community. Communications of all matters related to NYU Langone Health must be factual, current, accurate, and authentic.•Protect the privacy of patients, caregivers, workforce members and third party vendors. Protected Information (such as PHI) or Confidential Information may not be used in social media or external communications, unless the appropriate prior consent is obtained and is in compliance with federal, state and local regulations, including HIPAA and the Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA). This includes photos, date of admission or discharge, diagnosis or prognosis and other treatment information. Some information should never be shared publicly such as social security number and address. Do not provide individual medical advice.•Do not knowingly misrepresent your employment related information such as your employer, title, job function, length of employment and education information.•Check with the Communications team before posting anything that mentions our vendor partners, products, devices or treatments that you use as work. This implies endorsement and is generally not posted to NYU Langone’s social media platforms unless reviewed by Communications and the Office of General Counsel first. This includes customers, vendors, or patients who might mention a company or product on social media.•Do not make statements, on social media or other platforms, about the NYU Langone Health community, its members, or outside parties that are in breach of this Code. •Members of the NYU Langone Health community are permitted to engage in protected concerted activity and certain whistleblower activity as prescribed under the law, however they may not post or share statements that are offensive, obscene, defamatory, threatening, intimidating, harassing, shaming, bullying, retaliatory, discriminatory, hateful, racist, sexist, or result in public humiliation. This includes posts, symbols, or photographs that are shared from other social media sites or posted on your social media page by others. If you see a post from somebody in the NYU Langone Health community that may be in violation of our policies, you should report it to Communications or call the Compliance Helpline at 866 NYU 1212. We also urge you to review your own online activity and remove anything that may violate our policies. Those who do not follow these policies will face consequences up to and including termination.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 7• Communication on social media and all external communication must adhere to the same standards as outlined in Conduct with Patients, Colleagues and Others section of this Code on page 5.Refer any media questions or potential risks identified to the Communications team. Refer to the Social Media Policy for more details on how to handle media or other external communications on behalf of NYU Langone Health or contact the Office of Communications & Marketing at 212 404 3500 or socialmedia@nyulangone.org.If you are aware or become aware of non compliance with the Social Media Policy, report it to the Employee Labor Relations Department, Compliance Office, or the Compliance Helpline as described on page 16. EMERGENCY CARE (EMTALA)The Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) is also known as the patient anti dumping statute. This federal statute sets the rules for providing medical services and treatment to individuals with an emergency medical condition without consideration of the individual’s insurance coverage or ability to pay.Any individual who presents to an NYU Langone Health emergency room or any other NYU Langone Health facility will be given appropriate medical screening examinations or, if necessary, stabilizing treatment by qualified medical professionals upon their request or if a request has been made on their behalf. They are also entitled to these services regardless of race, color, religion, creed, sex, sexual orientation, gender and/or gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital or partnership status, parental or caregiver status, familial status, national origin, ethnicity, citizenship status, veteran or military status, age, disability, diagnosis, weight, height, or socioeconomic status.If you are in a role working with patients, you are expected to comply with NYU Langone Health’s EMTALA Policy on Screening, Stabilization, and Transfer of Individuals with Emergency Medical Conditions.PHARMACEUTICALS, PRESCRIPTION DRUGS, & CONTROLLED SUBSTANCESIf you have responsibility for, or access to, prescription drugs, controlled substances, over the counter drugs, or any medical supplies (for example, needles), you have a duty to:•Follow the laws, regulations, policies, procedures, and standards that apply to your responsibilities. You should become familiar with federal, state and local laws, NYU Langone Health policies, and Patient Care and Safety Standards that govern your work with these drugs and medical supplies, including but not limited to the handling of waste and expired drugs.•Keep all drugs and medical supplies secure. You should take particular care to keep drugs and medical supplies secured at all times and be sure they are never available to, or provided to, anyone who does not have a valid prescription or order from a provider licensed to prescribe and/or a medical need for use of supplies. Controlled substances must be secured at all times.•Report security problems. If you are aware of, or suspect a lapse of security or the inappropriate distribution, handling or diversion of drugs or medical supplies, you must report it immediately to your supervisor, Security, the Compliance Office directly, or via the confidential Compliance Helpline as described on page 16.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 8ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETYNYU Langone Health has health and safety policies and procedures to protect the environment and ensure that all individuals on site, including patients, visitors, and Workforce Members are protected from undue health risks and unsafe conditions. To maintain these safety standards, we must all:•Comply with all health and safety and environmental laws and regulations, and NYU Langone Health policies including the shipping, handling, use, storage, transportation, and disposal of all hazardous, radioactive, medical and chemical wastes.•Comply with NYU Langone Health’s permits that allow for the safe management of waste discharge.•Contract only with reputable, and where applicable, licensed vendors to evaluate, monitor, remediate, transport, and/or dispose of hazardous materials and conditions.•Comply with NYU Langone Health policies on maintaining an alcohol, drug, and smoke free workplace.•Only have food and drinks in areas that are allowed per NYU Langone Health policies regarding infection control and health and safety.•Accurately maintain the records required by federal and state laws and regulations.•Perform all assigned duties in a safe and responsible manner.•Report suspected violations. If you suspect a violation of an environmental or occupational safety or health law, or an unsafe condition, you must report it immediately to your supervisor or Environmental Health and Safety, the Compliance Office directly, or via the confidential Compliance Helpline as described on page 16.•If you work in an off site location you must also comply with the applicable safety standards for your specific patient, client, or resident populations.LAWS, REGULATIONS, & POLICIESAll members of the NYU Langone Health community must obey the letter and spirit of the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to them. You have a responsibility to:•Familiarize yourself with the federal, state and local laws and regulations that relate to your position and facility and uphold both the written words and the meaning behind those words.•Maintain any licenses and/or credentials required for your position.•Familiarize yourself with and avoid the actions that constitute professional misconduct if you are a licensed professional governed by a state board.•In addition to this Code of Conduct, learn and comply with NYU Langone Health’s policies that relate to your position. These policies are included in our mission, values, By laws and Rules and Regulations of the Medical and Dental Staff, Policies and Procedures for Graduate Medical Education, Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program Contract, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, Staff Handbook, NYU Langone Health Human Resources Policies and Procedures, Compliance & Privacy Policies and Procedures, and Patient Care and Safety Standards, and Administrative Policy and Procedures Manual. Many of our organization wide policies can be found via NYU Langone Health’s Policies and Procedures intranet site, Inside Health. You should also learn and follow the policies and procedures within your own department.•Ask questions. If you have questions about laws, regulations, or NYU Langone Health policies, or your responsibilities, you should ask your supervisor, Human Resources, the Compliance Office, or the Office of General Counsel.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 9•Immediately Inform NYU Langone Health if you become excluded from participating in federal or state healthcare programs. NYU Langone Health receives money from the federal and state government agencies, including entities such as Medicare, Medicaid, Tricare, and the National Institutes of Health. Since we receive these funds, we cannot employ, contract, or do business with excluded individuals or entities that are temporarily or permanently sanctioned, suspended, debarred, and/or otherwise ineligible from participating in a program funded by the federal or state government. If you learn that you or any person/entity subject to the Prohibition Against Employing or Contracting with Ineligible Persons and Exclusion Screening Policy have become excluded, you must immediately contact the Compliance Office. RESPONSIBILITIES OF MANAGERS & SUPERVISORSIf you have management or supervisory responsibilities, you have an additional duty to:•Keep up with regulatory changes that affect your areas of responsibility.•Seek out internal and external professional learning and development opportunities for yourself and those who report to you.•Act as a role model in demonstrating your understanding of and commitment to comply with federal, state and local laws and regulations as well as standards of accrediting agencies.•Ensure that departmental policies and procedures are current, maximize efficiency, and cover all required areas and standards pertinent to the specialty as well as any anticipated areas of risk.•Make sure your department obtains all necessary licenses, permits, and approvals required for operations.•Support regulatory initiatives including ensuring and advocating that all required education and training is completed in a timely manner. •Never engage in retribution, retaliation, intimidation, or harassment of another employee or NYU Langone Workforce Member.ACCURATE & TRUTHFUL DOCUMENTATIONIf you are responsible for documentation, financial reporting, or coding and billing, you must perform your duties accurately and truthfully. You have a duty to:•Create and maintain thorough, accurate records. Promptly document records as required by your job, following legal requirements, ethical professional standards, and departmental policies.•Fairly and accurately represent the financial condition of NYU Langone Health or any area you are responsible for. •Ensure that the financial transactions you report reflect actual transactions and conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).•Accurately record all assets and liabilities in their appropriate accounts, including, but not limited to, departmental funds, revenues, and expenses. •Avoid fraudulent financial reporting practices, such as the following: Hiding expenditures, funds, assets, or liabilities; Knowingly providing false, inaccurate, or incomplete information to another employee, management, auditors, legal counsel, government agencies, or accreditation organizations; or Providing untrue statements of material fact or omitting material facts.•Produce cost reports or financial statements that are true, correct, complete, and prepared in accordance with regulatory requirements.•Take responsibility. If coding or billing is done on your behalf, you should have a thorough knowledge of the claims and verify that they are accurate. You should never sign a document NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 10without being certain it is accurate and complete.•Bill Medicare, Medicaid, and commercial payors only for medically necessary and/or appropriate to the situation services that are performed and documented within a health record. Promptly report and return identified overpayments that do not meet this criteria. •Only assign and report billing codes that are clearly and consistently supported by documentation in the health record.•Avoid coding practices that are considered as fraud or abuse, such as the following: Using “default codes” or selecting codes because they guarantee payment, instead of coding and billing the products and services actually provided; “Upcoding,” or selecting the code for a more serious diagnosis or more extensive procedure than is actually performed; “Unbundling” a group of procedures and coding them separately in order to receive a separate payment for each procedure, when one or more are components of a global code; Billing for medically unnecessary services; or Cutting and pasting or copying forward substantial portions of a prior note and not making updates pertinent to the current date of service.•Immediately report any improprieties that you suspect in accounting, internal controls, auditing, or submission of fictitious or fraudulent claims to the Compliance Office directly, or via the confidential Compliance Helpline as described on page 16.ANTI KICKBACK & PHYSICIAN SELF REFERRALNYU Langone Health prohibits soliciting, receiving, offering or paying anything of value in exchange for referring patients, products, or services. If you accept or make referrals, you must:•Adhere to NYU Langone Health guidelines on accepting referrals. If you are in a position to accept patient referrals and admissions, you must do so based solely on the patient’s medical needs and our ability to render the services needed. You should never offer anything of value, directly or indirectly, to physicians or anyone else in exchange for referral of patients.•Adhere to guidelines on making referrals. If you are in a position to make referrals, you will not solicit or receive anything of value, directly or indirectly, in exchange for referring patients.•Not demand or expect anything in return for referring business. If you are in a position to make referrals to another healthcare provider, you will not take into account the volume or value of referrals that the provider has made, or may make, to NYU Langone Health.•Learn the rules that apply to the Stark Law that govern physician self referrals for Medicare and Medicaid patients.•Not refer patients for “Designated Health Services” to a facility that you or an immediate family member have an ownership/investment interest in, or compensation arrangement with, if services are being paid for by Medicare or Medicaid, unless a specific exception applies. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have identified the following as Designated Health Services under the Stark Law regulations: Clinical laboratory services Physical therapy services Occupational therapy services Outpatient speech language pathology services Radiology and certain other imaging services Radiation therapy services and supplies Durable medical equipment and supplies Parenteral and enteral nutrients, equipment, and supplies Prosthetics, orthotics, and prosthetic devices and supplies Home health services Outpatient prescription drugs Inpatient and outpatient hospital servicesNYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 11INVESTIGATIONS, ACCREDITATIONS, SURVEYS, AUDITS, OR INQUIRIESNYU Langone Health fully cooperates with requests from governmental agencies, accrediting organizations, external auditors, and internal parties concerning our operations. We need everyone’s commitment to:•Uphold NYU Langone Health’s policy on Responding to Governmental Investigations and Law Enforcement Requests.•Immediately report any requests you receive from a government investigator to your supervisor, who will contact the Office of General Counsel or the Compliance Office for further guidance.•Follow the direction provided by the Office of General Counsel if you are asked to surrender documents to external investigators.•Cooperate with representatives from accrediting licensing agencies such as CMS, the NYS Department of Health, and The Joint Commission (including Standards for Certified Home Health and Hospice), and the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) in an open and honest manner.•Notify the Chief Regulatory Officer if an inspector from a licensing or accreditation agency contacts your department or arrives on site.•Cooperate with all investigations, examinations, and audits from both internal and external parties.•Never destroy or alter records requested for an investigation or provide untruthful or misleading statements on, or about, those documents.•Never pressure or suggest to anyone to hide information from, or provide false information to, government investigators, accreditation surveyors, internal parties, or external auditors.•Never engage in retribution, retaliation, intimidation or harassment of an employee who reports a good faith concern to their supervisor, Human Resources, the Compliance Office, or the Office of General Counsel.PRIVACY & CONFIDENTIALITYProtected Information is any information created, maintained, received or transmitted by NYU Langone Health that may identify an individual (including Protected Health Information “PHI”) and which is subject to federal, state, or local laws and regulations (e.g., student educational records, social security numbers, personal information about employees).PHI is included as a part of Protected Information and is individually identifiable health information that is transmitted or maintained in any form (oral, electronic, or paper) that:•Identifies or could be used to identify an individual•Is created or received by a healthcare provider, health plan, employer, or healthcare clearinghouse And relates to the:•past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual•provision of healthcare to an individual; or•past, present, or future payment for the provision of that healthcare Examples of PHI as defined by HIPAA include:•Names•Photos•Addresses•Certificate/license numbers•Telephone numbers•Vehicle identifiers•Fax numbers•Biometric identifiers•Social security numbers•Device identifiers & serial numbers•Medical record numbers (MRNs)•Web URLs (e.g. social media pages)•Health plan numbers•IP addresses•Account numbers•Email addresses•Dates (admission, discharge, etc.)•Other unique identifiersNYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 12Confidential Information includes the following classes of information that are not intended for the public: Business arrangements. Our financial and contractual arrangements with suppliers and managed care companies. Plans. Information about our strategic plans, potential acquisitions, and planned investments. Marketing. Our marketing efforts or future plans. Financial information. Our prices, professional fees, reimbursements, and salary levels. Research Information. Research proposals, unpublished research data and results, and invention disclosures.Every member of the NYU Langone Health community is responsible for safeguarding Protected and Confidential Information about NYU Langone Health. You have a duty to:•Safeguard Protected and Confidential Information to prevent accidental, intentional, or inadvertent uses or disclosures to anyone who does not have a business purpose to know.•Follow NYU Langone Health’s privacy and security guidelines outlined in the following: Privacy, Information Security, and Confidentiality Agreement Workforce Members IT Policy HIPAA Privacy Policies Other information security policy and programs Guidance communicated by the Compliance Office, Human Resources/Employee and Labor Relations, and MCIT•Access and use Protected Information only to perform your job responsibilities and for no other purpose.•Limit the access, use and disclosure of Protected and Confidential Information to the minimum amount needed to accomplish the business purpose required to perform your duties and responsibilities.•Refrain from sharing Confidential Information concerning NYU Langone Health with representatives from other hospitals, healthcare providers, medical schools, entities that may compete with NYU Langone Health or other third parties. •Comply with NYU Langone Health’s guidelines for reporting breaches of PHI. •If you discover that unsecured PHI has been accessed, used, or disclosed, or if you find or receive PHI that you are not authorized to have, you must immediately report the incident to the HIPAA Helpline, or the Compliance Office directly as described on page 16.•Disclosures of any other Protected or Confidential information to parties that do not have a business purpose to know must also be reported via the Compliance Helpline, or directly to the Compliance Office as described on page 16.Regardless of whether you work directly with patients or not, you have a duty to protect PHI as set forth in federal and state regulations, like HIPAA. Whether accessing, using, or disclosing Protected Information (including but not limited to PHI) or Confidential Information, you must comply with laws, regulations, and NYU Langone Health Policies by:•Encrypting all email containing Protected or Confidential Information being sent to recipients outside NYU Langone Health, by using SendSafe secure email.•Securely disposing of equipment that contains Protected or Confidential Information including, but not limited to, medical devices, computers, telephones, mobile devices, printers, and scanners by contacting MCIT.•Properly disposing of paper that contains Protected or Confidential Information by shredding it with a crosscut shredder or placing in designated shred bins.•Safeguarding Protected or Confidential Information by locking or logging off your computer, not sharing your passwords and changing them often, using unique passwords for your personal and work accounts, and locking your doors and drawers.•Only using mobile and portable devices equipped with NYU Langone Health encryption and data erasing software to access NYU Langone Health data.•Refraining from sharing Protected or Confidential Information in casual conversations or in public areas where disclosures might be overheard.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 13•Not accessing Protected or Confidential Information in the view of unauthorized individuals.•Only using an NYU Langone Health issued email address (e.g., @nyulangone.org or @med.nyu.edu) to conduct all NYU Langone Health business.•Not transporting Protected or Confidential Information on unencrypted or unsecure portable devices, or if necessary, only utilize those devices that are issued or managed by MCIT.•Not sharing Protected or Confidential Information using text messaging, websites, social media or other situations where disclosures might be accessed or viewed.•Only using MCIT supported and authorized communication methods when sharing or transmitting Protected or Confidential Information.•Accessing NYU Langone Health Information offsite via webmail or the Inside Health portal. PROTECTION & USE OF NYU LANGONE HEALTH’S ASSETSEvery member of the NYU Langone Health community is responsible for protecting NYU Langone Health’s assets from loss, damage, theft, misuse and waste. These assets include:•Time You will work productively and report your time and attendance accurately.•Equipment and supplies You will not remove NYU Langone Health’s supplies and equipment from the premises for personal use. These supplies and equipment include personal protective equipment, vehicles, machinery, tools, computers, printers, telephones, pharmaceuticals, and medical devices, as well as office medical, cleaning, and food supplies.•Departmental funds If you are in a supervisory or management position, you will maintain careful internal controls and accurate records of departmental funds, including cash and cash equivalents (ex. gift cards). You will exercise appropriate oversight of financial reports, expense accounts, and timesheets.•Records You will comply with all record retention and destruction policies and schedules that apply to your job responsibilities.POLITICAL PARTICIPATIONNYU Langone Health’s funds, time, and equipment should not be used for political activity of any kind, including campaigning for (or against) a political candidate. Participation in political campaigns could jeopardize NYU Langone Health’s tax exempt status. This can be prevented by each member of the NYU Langone Health community by complying with the following guidelines:• Participate in political activity only as a private citizen, not as a representative of NYU Langone Health. You are entitled to participate in, or contribute to, any political organization or campaign you choose. However, you cannot use your NYU Langone Health title, affiliation, email address, letterhead or otherwise create the impression that any related correspondence is from NYU Langone Health.•Use your own funds for any political participation and do not attempt to be reimbursed by NYU Langone Health. This includes contributions through professional organizations to Political Action Committees (PACs).•Refrain from providing or offering any benefit in an attempt to influence government officials. If you are responsible for conducting transactions or handling contracts with governmental agencies, you should ensure that they are handled honestly and ethically.•Report inappropriate requests for benefits. If a government representative requests or demands any type of benefit from NYU Langone Health, you should report it immediately to the Office of Government and Community Affairs or the Office of General Counsel. NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 14CONFLICTS OF INTERESTMembers of the NYU Health community have a duty to avoid situations in which our business or personal interests influence (or appear to influence) our ability to act in the best interest of NYU Langone Health. In addition, we each have a duty to protect NYU Langone Health’s reputation and carry out its mission with integrity. All members of the NYU Langone Health community are required to comply with all NYU Langone Health conflicts of interest policies, including the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs. In addition, faculty members are also required to comply with the Policy on Faculty Conflicts of Commitment and the Policy on Faculty Consulting. NYU Langone Health’s conflicts of interest policies require all individuals to disclose new and anticipated conflicts of interest on an ongoing bases. In addition specific members of the NYU Langone community (see below) are required to submit an Annual Disclosure to the Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (“CIMU”). Members of the NYU Langone Community will also be required to complete a conflict of interest disclosure form upon request. If you believe you have a conflict of interest, you should disclose it. Among other things, you also have a responsibility to:•Learn to recognize and report situations that raise actual or potential conflicts of interest. Examples of conflicts that should be recognized and disclosed include, but are not limited to: If you or a member of your immediate family is an owner, a part owner, or an employee of, or is otherwise receiving money from or holds an interest in, a company that: . Does business with NYU Langone Health; . Proposes to do business with NYU Langone Health; . Competes with NYU Langone Health, or . Solicits employees from NYU Langone Health. If you have an interest in intellectual property that is the subject of sponsored research at NYU Langone Health. If you or an immediate family member engage in outside activities, including employment, that may compete or interfere with the operations of NYU Langone Health. You are required to submit an annual disclosure if you are one of the following: Faculty (full time appointment or otherwise compensated employed full or part time) Chairs, vice chairs, executive vice presidents, vice presidents, deans, associate and assistant deans, and department/division administrators Director level and above employees Supply Chain Management/Purchasing employees and anyone involved in purchasing decisions and/or contract negotiations on behalf of NYU Langone Health Investigators and all other key personnel on grants; investigators, co investigators, sub investigators, and research coordinators on Institutional Review Board (IRB) applications Members of any oversight committees related to patient care, purchasing, research, or education Employees of the Offices of Compliance, General Counsel, Government Affairs, and certain staff of the Office of Science and Research Trustee or officer of any NYU Langone Health entity Regardless of position, you are also expected to immediately submit a conflict of interest disclosure if you have or may have a conflict of interest.•In addition, members of the NYU Langone Health community are expected to refuse personal gifts or benefits from vendors, patients, or others. NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Acceptance and/or Solicitation of Gifts or Benefits from Vendors, Patients, or Other Third Parties includes guidelines that outline appropriate practices for receiving and responding to gifts and/or invitations in alignment with federal and state laws and regulations. NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 15•You should also never use your position to profit personally or to assist others in profiting at the expense of NYU Langone Health.Intellectual Property•Employees are expected to adhere to NYU Langone Health policies concerning the use of NYU and NYU Langone Health names, trademarks and logos in outside activities, as outlined in the Social Media Policy and policies on Endorsements and the Use of the NYU and NYU Langone Health Name.•Employees are encouraged to consult with the Office of General Counsel or Technologies, Opportunities, and Ventures (TOV) to discuss any use of intellectual property held by NYU or by personnel to avoid conflicts of policy, interest, or commitment.Research Conflicts of Interest If you are a research investigator or other research team member involved in research at NYU Langone Health, you have an obligation to conduct research that is free from any appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest and are required to comply with the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs. Pursuant to that Policy. All potential conflicts of interests must be disclosed, evaluated, and managed and/ or eliminated. Among other things, you have a responsibility to:•Perform research with objectivity and trustworthiness that maintains the integrity of the research, as well as the institution, and is in the best interest of the subjects enrolled in the study.•Understand the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs and stay informed of any laws and regulations related to conflicts of interest in research.•Disclose any financial interests and/or relationships related to Sponsored Programs that you, or your immediate family members, have with any entity that may reasonably appear to affect or be affected by the design, conduct, or reporting of the research.•Disclose all domestic and foreign consulting and other outside business activities, whether paid or unpaid. All interests and affiliations, financial or other, related to a foreign institution of higher education or the government of another country must be disclosed to the Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) and the research sponsor, as required.•Adhere to any stipulations issued in relation to research that have been implemented to manage any potential conflicts of interest that may exist. All potential conflicts of interests must be disclosed, evaluated, and managed or eliminated under the Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs.•Complete any required training, such as the PHS Investigator training on promoting objectivity in research.You can contact the Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (“CIMU”) for further guidance on how to disclose actual or potential conflicts of interest or if you have any questions related to actual or potential conflicts. The Conflicts of Interest Management Unit can be reached at cimu.disclosures@nyulangone.org. NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 16SCIENTIFIC & CLINICAL RESEARCHNYU Langone Health is committed to developing and conducting research with the highest ethical standards. If you are involved in research, you have a responsibility to conduct research with integrity and in accordance with scientific best practices, as well as in compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations, and NYU Langone Health policies, including:•Obtaining all required approvals and follow all NYU Langone Health guidelines, policies, and procedures, including those of the following: Sponsored Programs Administration and Research Finance, for guidance on complying with the administrative and fiscal requirements for government sponsored research as well as research sponsored by industry and non profit organizations; IRB for approval of all research involving human subjects; Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee, for approval of all research involving animals; Institutional Bio Safety Committee, for approval of all research involving recombinant DNA and highly infectious agents; Institutional Review Entity for approval of all research involving dual use research of concern; Embryonic Stem Cell Research Oversight Committee for approval of research involving human embryonic stem cells; and/or Clinical Research Support Unit, which facilitates the conduct of clinical research studies, such as contract and budget negotiations and business development.•Maintain accurate, truthful, and complete accounting, record keeping, and billing records.•Comply with governmental and sponsor requirements, as well as NYU Langone Health policies and procedures including those relating to: Clinical Research and Billing; Cost Transfers on Sponsored Projects; Institutional Cost Sharing; Effort Reporting and Payroll Verification for Sponsored Projects Program Income Earned on Sponsored Projects; and Charging Direct Costs to Sponsored Projects.•Disclosing and reporting resources related to your research endeavors, all affiliations and appointments, and any other requirements of the research sponsor.•Never participating in research misconduct by fabricating or falsifying data or results, or plagiarizing; concerns about research misconduct must be reported to the Research Integrity Officer at 212 404 4079 via the Compliance Office. PRIORITIES IN RESEARCH COMPLIANCESome high priorities include, but are not limited to:•Protecting research participants and upholding their rights during clinical trials and other research, and fully informing them of their rights and responsibilities, risks, expected benefits, and alternatives.•The humane care and use of laboratory animals in biomedical and behavioral research and education.•Compliance with federal and state laws and the terms of sponsored research agreements when applying for funding, performing research and reporting interim and final results.•Maintaining high ethical standards in the responsible conduct of research, including disclosure of financial interests that may create the appearance of a conflict of interest.In addition, researchers must be familiar with:•Appropriate grants stewardship and accountability. Researchers must ensure funding agencies and research sponsors are charged only for what is accurate and satisfactory work; and for which the sponsors have agreed to pay and for work actually performed.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 17•Protection of Human Subjects. Researchers must complete required training in research ethics and regulations as a prerequisite to conducting research with human subjects.•Data integrity principles. Researchers must maintain accurate and complete data, in accordance with contractual requirements and applicable NYU Langone Health policies to ensure research integrity, protect privacy and confidentiality, and protect intellectual property rights.•Research misconduct requirements. Researchers must not engage in research misconduct meaning fabrication, falsification or plagiarism in any scientific activities. Any instances of research misconduct must be promptly reported to the Research Integrity Officer via the Compliance Office.•There are many requirements that apply to researchers. Specific regulatory or compliance questions should be directed to the Compliance Office via email at compliancehelp@nyulangone.org or the Compliance Helpline at 866 NYU 1212. RESPONSIBILITY TO REPORTCompliance is the responsibility of every member of the NYU Langone Health community. If you suspect a violation of the Code, NYU Langone Health policies, or federal, state, or local laws, you must immediately report it, even if you are not sure if it is a true violation. In compliance with the Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Policy, use one of the following methods to report your concern:•Make a report to your supervisor. Schedule a meeting, if appropriate, so you can discuss the issue confidentially and thoroughly. Be prepared to present any evidence you have to support your allegations.•Make a report to a representative from the Compliance Office, Human Resources, or the Office of General Counsel. If you are uncomfortable talking with the person who supervises your work, you can contact any one of the following areas: Compliance Office: 212 404 4079 or One Park Avenue, 3rd Floor, New York, NY 10016 Compliance Fax: 929 455 9412 Compliance Email: compliancehelp@nyulangone.org Compliance Helpline: 866 NYU 1212 or 866 698 1212 (May be anonymous) or https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com HIPAA Helpline: 877 PHI LOSS or 877 744 5677 or https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com Human Resources Department—Employee Relations: 212 404 3787 Office of General Counsel: 212 404 4076 Patient Relations: Tisch Hospital: 212 263 6906 NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital: 212 598 6336 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn: 718 630 7314 NYU Langone Hospital Long Island: 516 663 2058The Compliance and HIPAA Helplines are multilingual, toll free, and available seven days a week, 24 hours a day. When calling the Compliance Helpline, you do not need to reveal your identity and can request that your report remain anonymous. You should give enough specific information to enable a complete investigation of the issue you are reporting. Whether your report is anonymous or not, your compliance concern will only be shared with others who have a need to know in order to conduct an effective investigation and to determine an appropriate course of action. In some instances, your identity might need to be revealed in order for an investigation or legal proceeding to move forward.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 18If you know of, or suspect, a violation and do not report it, you could be subject to disciplinary action. Failure to report a violation, cooperate with investigations, or complete any required trainings and corrective actions are violations in themselves and could result in disciplinary action. POLICY ON AFFIRMATIVE ACTION/EQUAL OPPORTUNITYNYU Langone Health is committed to a policy of equal treatment and opportunity in every aspect of its relations with its faculty, students, and staff members, without regard to age, military or veteran status, citizenship status, color, disability, marital or parental status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, national origin, race, creed, religion, sex, gender, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, sexual orientation, weight, height or any other protected class as established by law. This includes, but is not limited to, recruitment, hiring or appointment, selection for training, transfer, layoff, promotion, granting of tenure, rates of pay and other forms of compensation, benefits and participation in educational, social, and recreational programs sponsored by NYU Langone Health and all other terms and conditions of employment.It is the policy of NYU Langone Health, in accordance with Title VI of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, not to discriminate on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity, gender expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, age, national origin, citizenship status, disability, military or veteran status, or any other protected class as established by law in any educational program or activity.Inquiries regarding the application of Title IX and its implementing regulations may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator (titleix@nyulangone.org, 212 404 3825, One Park Avenue, 4th Floor, New York, NY 10016,), or to the Office for Civil Rights at https://ocrcas.ed.gov/contact ocr.NON RETALIATION POLICYAll members of the NYU Langone Health community are protected from retaliation, retribution, intimidation and harassment if in good faith and with reasonable belief, you report violations of this Code, NYU Langone Health policies, or federal, state, and local laws.There will be no retaliation against you if, in your reasonable belief, you raise concerns or questions about misconduct or report violations of this Code, NYU Langone Health policies, or federal, state, or local laws. Examples of retaliationinclude, but are not limited to, termination of employment, unjustified negative performance reviews, harassment, or exclusion from department meetings or social activities.Reported compliance concerns are considered to be made in bad faith if they are reported maliciously (with ill intent) or with reckless disregard for their truth or falsity. Individuals making reports in bad faith may be subject to disciplinary or other employment action by NYU Langone Health and may also be subject to legal claims by the individuals about whom the bad faith reports were made.NYU LANGONE HEALTH CODE OF CONDUCT PAGE 19If you report a violation and believe you are experiencing retaliation, retribution, intimidation or harassment, you should report it to the Compliance Office or Human Resources. Anyone who retaliates against someone who has raised a concern or reported a violation of the Code may be subject to disciplinary action or other employment action.DISCIPLINARY ACTIONViolations of this Code, NYU Langone Health policies, or federal, state, and local laws, could result in serious disciplinary action.Any member of the NYU Langone Health community who violates this Code of Conduct, may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The specific disciplinary action will depend on the nature and severity of the violation. Disciplinary actions will be consistent with the manual and documentation applicable to your position in the NYU Langone Health community (e.g., Faculty Handbook, provisions of applicable labor contracts, Residency Training Program Contract, GME House Staff Manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Student Handbook, Staff Handbook, NYU Langone Health Human Resources Policies and Procedures, By Laws of the Medical and Dental Staff, Rules and Regulations of the Medical and Dental Staff, Patient Care and Safety Standards, and the Administrative Policy and Procedures Manual).Examples of actions subject to disciplinary action specific to this Code include the following:•Participating in activities that violate this Code.•Encouraging, directing, facilitating, or permitting activities that violate this Code.•Failing to report suspected violations of this Code; and•Failing to detect violations of this Code that should have been discovered in the course of your supervisory or management responsibilities.


NYU Langone Hospitals Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan 2022 2024 1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Developing our Community Service Plan Who We Are NYU Langone Health is one of the nation’s premier academic medical centers. Composed of NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”), NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”), NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“NYULISoM”), and Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, NYU Langone Health has a trifold mission: to serve, teach and discover. Located in the heart of Manhattan, with additional facilities throughout the New York City area. Throughout NYU Langone Health, we provide financial assistance for patients with limited income regardless of their insurance status. For information about the NYULH financial assistance program go to: https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance Every three years, all non profit hospitals are required to create a Community Service Plan a plan to offer programs that meet the community’s top health needs. A Community Service Plan begins with a community health needs and assets assessment. This includes a review of community data and information from community members about their health needs and priorities. This assessment shows us what health concerns the communities are experiencing and how we can help address these concerns. We then create a plan to address these needs that aligns with the New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City and Nassau County public health priorities. Our Communities NYU Langone Health (NYULH) serves communities of diverse people with a variety of health concerns. As with our previous Community Service Plan, the 2022 2024 Plan focuses on the Lower East Side and Chinatown in Manhattan, and Sunset Park and Red Hook in Brooklyn. In 2022, with the addition of NYU Langone Hospital Long Island (formerly Winthrop University Hospital), we also completed a needs and assets assessment with community leaders and residents in Hempstead, Nassau County, Long Island. These communities reflect the Hospitals’ patient population and are geographically close to the hospitals that comprise NYU Langone Health. Although these communities are not close to each other, they share important similarities, including the diversity of their populations, strong community based organizations, and pockets of poverty in areas of higher wealth. Map Source: U.S. Census Bureau, generated using data.census.gov; https://data.census.gov/cedsci; (30 Mar 2022). Lower East Side/ Chinatown, Manhattan Hempstead, Nassau Sunset Park, Brooklyn Red Hook, Brooklyn Our Priorities 2 Public participation is an important part of our process. We spoke with community residents, service providers, and public health and policy experts to understand needs, strengths, and health priorities. We also reviewed data to understand risks, health disparities, and existing resources and services. Our communities share similar health concerns. Reducing tobacco use, ensuring access to healthy food and safe environments, and preventing cardiovascular disease, and supporting families through early childhood and teen programs continue to be top priorities. There is also a growing concern about the intersection of health and social and economic needs, particularly housing, across all communities and partners. PREVENTING CHRONIC DISEASE PROMOTING HEALTHY WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN By Reducing Tobacco Use Smoking in New York City has dropped to . But of low income New Yorkers smoke. The smoking rate for Asian men in New York City is even higher () and has remained relatively unchanged since 2002. Smoking is also higher in Hempstead () than Nassau County (). By Addressing the Intersection of Health and Housing Many studies have shown the link between housing instability and poor health and increased need for health care services. Homelessness increases risk for chronic and infectious diseases and mental health issues. Severe rent burden, overcrowding and eviction can lead to stress, depression, anxiety, and less access to care and medications. Structural issues, mold, and pests can cause respiratory problems and falls and other injuries. Housing instability and quality are high priority social determinants of health in all of our communities. By Promoting Healthy Eating and Food Security Food insecurity (lack of enough food or access to nutritious food) is harmful to health and is especially problematic for young children as it can affect development. Even before the COVID pandemic, one out of ten adults in New York City often or sometimes did not have enough food to eat. Rates are higher for Latinx, Black, and Asian adults compared with White adults. The COVID pandemic has made food insecurity worse and many community organizations have reported dramatic increases in the number of families served at food pantries. Obesity continues to be epidemic. It is more common in low income communities where neighborhood resources like healthy food and safe places for physical activity may not be available. Many children seen at Sunset Park and Hempstead pediatric practices are overweight or obese. Preventing and addressing obesity is a high priority for community residents and leaders. Poverty often puts mothers at risk for depression and problems during pregnancy, and puts children at risk for poor health and developmental problems. The COVID pandemic has increased stress for many families. The rise in anti immigrant feelings and the impact of violence and racism also increase concerns about mother and child well being. In addition, while teen birth rates have declined, rates remain higher in Sunset Park and Hempstead. Supporting the wellbeing of women, infants, children, and teens is a priority in all of our communities. PROMOTING A HEALTHY AND SAFE ENVIRONMENT Falls are the leading cause of injury related death and hospital visits for adults ages 65 years or older in New York State. As the population ages, preventing falls is key to promoting health and enabling older adults to remain independent. Our Plan to Prevent Chronic Disease 3 Healthy Food Initiative Tobacco Free Community The Healthy Food Initiative is an evidence informed intervention to address food insecurity that includes emergency food assistance, screening and case management, community education, and a community wide food systems coalition. The Healthy Food Initiative serves households in Sunset Park and neighboring communities. Tobacco Free Community addresses high smoking rates among immigrant populations by facilitating access to smoking cessation treatment and reducing children’s exposure to secondhand smoke through community based partnership, advocacy, outreach, counseling, and referrals to cessation and health services. Tobacco Free Community serves residents in Lower East Side and Chinatown, Red Hook, Sunset Park, and other New York City neighborhoods. Greenlight Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program Greenlight is an evidence based, culturally adapted nutrition and healthy lifestyle program for parents of children ages newborn to 2 years old to improve health literacy and foster healthful behaviors through provider training, family engagement, and booklet and tool distribution. Greenlight serves children and their families in pediatric primary care centers in Lower East Side and Chinatown, Sunset Park, and Hempstead. The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program is an evidence based education series facilitated by registered nurses in community settings, such as public libraries, to help people with chronic diseases manage their symptoms and live healthy, fulfilling lives. The Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program serves residents from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans Red Hook Community Health Network Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans (REACH FAR) is a culturally tailored health coaching, screening, and healthy food access program for Asian and Arab Americans to prevent and improve management of diabetes and cardiovascular disease. REACH FAR works with mosques in Lower East Side and Sunset Park. The Red Hook Community Health Network is a network of community based organizations and health partners expanding access to health services for Red Hook residents, especially those living in public housing, through a community health worker program and community workgroups. The Red Hook Community Health Network works with organizations and residents in Red Hook. Our Plan to Prevent Chronic Disease 4 Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center Health x Housing Lab The Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center (CHW RRC) expands access to training and up to date information on health topics and community resources for Community Health Workers (CHWs). The CHW RRC provides social and professional development opportunities for CHWs within the NYU Langone Health system. It also provides technical support, evaluation, and convening opportunities to support community based organizations, health systems, municipal agencies, and research organizations to help them strengthen their CHW programs and better understand the role of CHWs in promoting the health of vulnerable communities. Health x Housing Lab aims to advance health and health equity by contributing toward a future in which all people have safe, stable, and affordable housing through providing evidence based guidance on initiatives, policy, and education and career development for future leaders at the intersection of health and housing. Health x Housing Lab works with New York City and national policy leaders, advocates, people with lived experience of homelessness, and housing and healthcare providers. Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium Brooklyn Health & Housing Consortium is a collaborative network of healthcare, housing, homeless and social services organizations, and government partners to improve health equity and housing stability through fostering cross sector relationships, informing policy, and building the capacity of frontline workers who support Brooklyn residents with unmet health and housing needs. Our Plan to Promote Healthy Women, Infants, and Children 5 ParentChild+ Project SAFE ParentChild+ is a national, evidence based home visiting program that promotes early literacy, parenting and school readiness through twice weekly home visits for two years. ParentChild+ serves parents and their 2 4 year old children in Sunset Park. − Project SAFE is a teen pregnancy and HIV/ AIDS prevention program, using an evidence based youth leadership and peer education model. Particular focus is on disparities for youth who live in low income households and/or identify as racial or ethnic minorities. Project SAFE serves youth 11 24 years old in Sunset Park and other Brooklyn neighborhoods. ParentCorps Family Support Services ParentCorps is an evidence based, family centered early childhood intervention for pre K parents, educators, and children designed to improve child health, behavior and learning. ParentCorps works with parents, educators, and children in Sunset Park. Family Support Services is an evidence informed program that supports childhood health and development through family social needs screening and care coordination. Supports include the national, evidence informed Reach Out and Read program, which delivers books and messaging about the importance of reading at routine pediatric checkups. Family Support Services works with families with children who are patients of the NYU Langone Health Long Island Pediatric Primary Care Center in Hempstead. Video Interaction Project Video Interaction Project (VIP) is an evidence based parenting program in pediatric clinics that provides 25 minute one on one visits with a VIP Coach who uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents support early development and literacy in their children. VIP serves families in pediatric primary care centers and community sites in Sunset Park. Our Plan to Promote Healthy and Safe Environments 6 Our Core Values Performance Respect Integrity Diversity Excellence Copies of the full Community Health Needs Assessment & Community Service Plan 2022 2024 can be downloaded from the NYU Langone Health website at: http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan. For questions and comments, please contact Sue A. Kaplan, JD, Research Associate Professor and Director of the Community Service Plan, Department of Population Health at: sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org or Kathleen Hopkins, Vice President for Community Programs, Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Health at: kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org. Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention A Matter of Balance Tai Chi for Arthirits for Fall Prevention is an evidence based Tai Chi fall risk reduction program for adults over 60 in hospital and community settings. Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention serves older adults from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. A Matter of Balance is an evidence based eight session exercise program to reduce the fear of falling and increase activity levels among older adults offered in hospital and community settings. A Matter of Balance serves older adults from Hempstead and other Long Island neighborhoods. Our Plan for Ongoing Evaluation and Adaptation Our Coordinating Council, composed of community partners and NYU Langone Health program leaders, will continue to meet every three months to review the progress of all programs. In 2020, the Coordinating Council adopted principles to increase community engagement, improve health equity, and implement an anti racist agenda. Each Community Service Plan initiative selected one or more of these principles as a focus for improvement. We will continue to work with the community and our partners to understand the impact of our programs, identify new community needs, and develop strategies to improve the health of our communities. Brooklyn Data Station The Brooklyn Data Station provides analysis and technical assistance to Coordinating Council members for ongoing needs assessments, partnership building, program planning, and evaluation.


NYU Langone Hospitals 2022 2024 年度社區健康需求評估和社區服務計劃 1 執行摘要 開發我們的社區服務計劃 關於我們 NYU Langone Health 是美國首屈一指的學術醫療中心之一。NYU Langone Health 由 NYU Langone Hospitals (“NYULH”)、NYU Grossman School of Medicine (“NYUSoM”)、NYU Long Island School of Medicine (“NYULISoM”) 和 NYU Langone 的家庭健康中心組成，擁有三重使命：服務、教學和探索。位於Manhattan 的中心地帶，並有遍布紐約市區的其他設施。 在 NYU Langone Health 上下，我們為收入有限的患者提供經濟援助，無論其保險狀況如何。有關 NYULH 經濟援助計劃的信息，請訪問：https://nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistance 每三年，所有非營利性醫院均需制定一項社區服務計劃，該計劃旨在提供滿足社區頭號健康需求的計劃。社區服務計劃始於社區健康需求和資產評估。這包括審查社區數據和社區成員相關健康需求和優先事項的信息。該評估向我們展示了社區正在經歷的健康問題以及我們如何協助解決這些問題。繼而，我們制定了一項計劃來滿足這些需求，該計劃切合紐約州預防議程以及紐約市和Nassau 縣的公共衛生優先事項。 我們的社區 NYU Langone Health (NYULH) 為具有各種健康問題的不同人群提供服務。如同我們之前的社區服務計劃，2022 2024 年度計劃的重點是Manhattan的Lower East Side 和Chinatown，以及Brooklyn 的Sunset Park 和Red Hook。2022 年，隨著 NYU Langone Hospitals Long Island（原Winthrop University Hospital）的加入，我們還與 Long Island 下轄 Nassau 縣Hempstead 的社區領袖和居民一起完成了需求和資產評估。 這些社區反映了醫院的患者群體，並且在地理位置上靠近組成 NYU Langone Health 的各家醫院。儘管這些社區互不相隣，但有著重要的相似之處，包括人口的多樣性、強大的社區組織以及富裕地區的貧民片區。 地圖來源：U.S. Census Bureau, 使用 data.census.gov ; https://data.census.gov/cedsci ； （2022 年 3 月 30 日）。 Lower East Side/Chinatown, Manhattan Hempstead, Nassau Sunset Park, Brooklyn Red Hook, Brooklyn 我們的優先事項 2 公眾參與是我們流程的重要組成部分。我們與社區居民、服務提供者以及公共衛生和政策專家進行了交談，以了解需求、優勢和健康優先事項。我們還審查了數據以了解風險、健康差異以及現有資源和服務。我們的社區有著相似的健康問題。減少煙草使用、確保獲得健康食品和安全環境、預防心血管疾病以及通過幼兒和青少年計劃支持家庭，這些仍然是重中之重。所有社區和合作夥伴對健康與社會和經濟需求，特別是住房的交叉點也日益關注。 預防慢性病 促進婦女、嬰兒和兒童的健康 通過減少煙草使用 紐約市的吸煙率已降至 。但 的低收入紐約人吸煙。紐約市亞裔男性的吸煙率甚至更高（），自 2002 年以來一直保持相對不變。Hempstead () 的吸煙率也高於Nassau 縣 ()。 通過解決健康和住房的交集問題 許多研究表明，住房不穩定與健康狀況不佳以及對醫療保健服務的需求增加之間存在聯繫。無家可歸會增加患慢性病和傳染病以及心理健康問題的風險。龐大的租金負擔、過度擁擠和迫遷會導致壓力、抑鬱、焦慮，並減少獲得護理和藥物的機會。構造問題、黴菌和害蟲會導致呼吸問題、跌倒和其他傷害。在我們所有社區中，住房不穩定和質量是高度優先的健康社會決定因素。 通過促進健康飲食和食物安全 食物不安全（缺乏足夠的食物或無法獲得有營養的食物）對健康有害，對幼兒尤其成問題，因為會影響發育。早在 COVID 大流行之前，紐約市十分之一的成年人就經常或有時沒有足夠的食物吃。與白人成年人相比，拉丁裔、黑人和亞洲成年人的比率更高。COVID 大流行使食物不安全狀況變得更糟，許多社區組織報告說，在食品供應站接受服務的家庭數量急劇增加。 肥胖持續流行。這在低收入社區更為常見，因為那裡可能無法獲得鄰里資源（如健康食品和安全的體育活動場所）。在Sunset Park 和Hempstead 兒科診所就醫的許多兒童超重或肥胖。預防和解決肥胖問題是社區居民和領導者的重中之重。 貧困常常使母親在懷孕期間面臨抑鬱症和問題的風險，並使兒童面臨健康狀況不佳和發育問題的風險。COVID 大流行增加了許多家庭的壓力。反移民情緒的上升以及暴力和種族主義的影響也增加了對母子福祉的擔憂。此外，雖然青少年出生率有所下降，但Sunset Park 和Hempstead 的出生率仍然較高。支持婦女、嬰兒、兒童和青少年的福祉是我們所有社區的首要任務。 促進健康安全的環境 跌倒是紐約州 65 歲或以上的成年人因受傷而死亡和住院的主要原因。隨著人口老齡化，預防跌倒是促進健康和使老年人保持自理的關鍵。 我們的預防慢性病計劃 3 Healthy Food Initiative Tobacco Free Community Healthy Food Initiative 是一項解決食物不安全問題的循證干預措施，包括緊急糧食援助、篩查和病例管理、社區教育以及全社區食物系統聯盟。Healthy Food Initiative 為Sunset Park 和鄰近社區的家庭提供服務。 Tobacco Free Community 通過基於社區的合作伙伴關係、宣傳、外展、諮詢以及轉介戒菸和健康服務，促進獲得戒菸治療並減少兒童接觸二手煙，從而解決移民人口中的高吸煙率問題。Tobacco Free Community為Lower East Side 和Chinatown、Red Hook、Sunset Park 和紐約市其他街區的居民提供服務。 Greenlight Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program Greenlight 是一項結合文化特點的營養和健康生活方式的循證計劃，旨在通過提供者培訓、家庭參與以及小冊子和工具分發，為新生兒至 2 歲兒童的父母提高健康素養並促進健康行為。Greenlight 在Lower East Side 和Chinatown、Sunset Park 和Hempstead 的兒科初級保健中心為兒童及其家人提供服務。 Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program 是一個循證教育系列，由註冊護士在公共圖書館等社區環境中推動，幫助慢性病患者管理自身症狀並過上健康、充實的生活。Stanford Chronic Disease Self Management Program 為 Hempstead 和其他 Long Island 社區的居民提供服務。 Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans Red Hook Community Health Network Racial and Ethnic Approaches to Community Health for Asian Americans (REACH FAR) 是一項針對亞裔和阿拉伯裔美國人的文化量身定制的健康指導、篩查和健康食品獲取計劃，以預防並改善糖尿病和心血管疾病的管理。REACH FAR 與Lower East Side 和Sunset Park 的清真寺合作。 Red Hook Community Health Network 是一個由社區組織和健康合作夥伴組成的網絡，通過社區衛生工作者計劃和社區工作組，為 Red Hook 居民，尤其是居住在公共住房中的居民，擴大獲得衛生服務的機會。Red Hook Community Health Network 與 Red Hook 的各家組織和居民合作。 我們的預防慢性病計劃 4 Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center Health x Housing Lab Community Health Worker Resource and Research Center (CHW RRC) 擴大了社區衛生工作者 (CHW) 獲得培訓以及衛生主題和社區資源最新信息的機會。CHW RRC 為 NYU Langone Health 系統內的 CHW 提供社會和職業發展機會。該計劃還提供技術支持、評估和召集機會，以支持社區組織、衛生系統、市政機構和研究組織，以幫助他們加強其 CHW 計劃並更好地了解 CHW 在促進弱勢社區健康方面的作用。 Health x Housing Lab 旨在通過為處於健康和住房交叉點的未來領袖提供有關倡議、政策、教育和職業發展的循證指導，為所有人擁有安全、穩定和負擔得起的住房的未來做出貢獻，從而促進健康和健康公平。Health x Housing Lab 與紐約市和國家政策領導人、倡導者、有無家可歸經歷的人群以及住房和醫療保健提供者合作。 BrooklynBrooklyn Health & Housing Consortium BrooklynBrooklyn Health & Housing Consortium 是一個由醫療保健、住房、無家可歸者和社會服務組織以及政府合作夥伴組成的協作網絡，旨在通過促進跨部門關係、擬定政策，並構建支持Brooklyn 健康和住房需求未得到滿足的居民的一線工作人員的能力，來改善健康公平和住房穩定性。 我們的促進婦女、嬰兒和兒童健康計劃 5 ParentChild+ Project SAFE ParentChild+ 是一項全國循證家訪計劃，通過為期兩年的每週兩次家訪來促進早期識字、育兒和入學準備。ParentChild+ 在Sunset Park 為父母和他們 2 4 歲的孩子提供服務。 Project SAFE 是一項青少年懷孕和艾滋病毒/艾滋病預防計劃，採用實證青年領導力和同伴教育模式。具體重點是生活在低收入家庭和/或被認定為少數種族或少數族裔的青年的差異性。Project SAFE 為Sunset Park和Brooklyn 其他街區的 11 24 歲青年提供服務。 ParentCorps Family Support Services ParentCorps 是一項以家庭為中心的早期兒童干預循證措施，面向學前班家長、教育工作者和兒童，旨在改善兒童健康、行為和學習。ParentCorps 與Sunset Park的家長、教育工作者和兒童合作。 Family Support Services 是一項循證計劃，通過家庭社會需求篩查和護理協調來支持兒童健康和發展。支持包括全國性的「聯絡和閱讀」循證計劃，該計劃在常規兒科檢查中提供關於閱讀重要性的書籍和信息。Family Support Services 與有孩子的家庭合作，這些孩子是 NYU Langone Health 位於Hempstead 的Long Island 兒科初級保健中心的患者。 Video Interaction Project 視頻互動項目 (VIP) 是兒科診所的一項循證育兒計劃，提供 25 分鐘的一對一訪問，並由 VIP 教練使用錄像和適合發育的玩具、書籍和資源，來幫助父母支持早期發育和他們的孩子識字。VIP 為Sunset Park 的兒科初級保健中心的家庭和社區場所提供服務。 我們的促進健康和安全環境計劃 6 我們的核心價值觀 績效 尊重 誠信 多元化 卓越 完整的『2022 2024 年社區健康需求評估和社區服務計劃』副本可從 NYU Langone Health 網站下載： http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan。 如有問題和意見，請聯繫 Sue A. Kaplan，JD，副教授研究員兼人口健康部社區服務計劃主任： sue.kaplan@nyulangone.org 或 Kathleen Hopkins，NYU Langone Health 家庭健康中心社區計劃副主席：kathleen.hopkins@nyulangone.org。 Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention A Matter of Balance 「Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention」是一項針對醫院和社區環境中 60 歲以上成年人的太極拳降低跌倒風險循證計劃。「Tai Chi for Arthritis for Fall Prevention」計劃為Hempstead 和其他Long Island 社區的老年人提供服務。 「A Matter of Balance」是一項八程式鍛煉實證計劃，旨在減少醫院和社區環境中老年人對跌倒的恐懼並提高活動水平。「A Matter of Balance」計劃為Hempstead 和其他Long Island 社區的老年人提供服務。 我們的持續評估和適應計劃 我們的協調委員會由社區合作夥伴和 NYU Langone Health 項目負責人組成，將繼續每季度開會一次，審查所有項目的進展情況。2020 年，協調委員會通過了增進社區參與、改善健康公平和實施反種族主義議程的原則。每個社區服務計劃倡議都選擇了這些原則中的一項或多項作為改進的重點。我們將繼續助力社區和我們的合作夥伴，以了解我們計劃的影響，確定新的社區需求，並製定改善社區健康的戰略。 Brooklyn Data Station Brooklyn Data StationBrooklyn 為協調委員會成員提供分析和技術援助，以進行持續的需求評估、合作夥伴關係建設、項目規劃和評估。


IN THE COMMUNITY2023Our Commitment to Nursing ExcellenceTABLE OFContentsMessage from the Dean and CEOMeasuring Our Impact:Community Benefit ContributionsNursing in the CommunityEmergency Care and Injury PreventionHypertension and Community Health WorkersBehavioral Health in the CommunityDental Care in the CommunityCommunity Health and Subsidized CareImpacting HealthBeyond the Hospital WallsMeasuring Our Impact: Access to World Class Care456101214161820224Dear Friends,NYU Langone Health is guided by the belief that all people, no matter their background, where they live, or their ability to pay, deserve world class healthcare. This principle is best reflected by our turnaround of what is now known as NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn in Sunset Park, which was conferred Magnet Recognition® for excellence in nursing from the American Nurses Credentialing Center for the first time. NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn is the only hospital in the borough to achieve this status, considered the gold standard in nursing.Our nurses are fitting representatives of NYU Langone’s role in the community: we combine top ranked skill with passion and dedication to those under our care. That is why this year’s In the Community report focuses on our commitment to nursing excellence. Our nurses’ close and consistent contact with the members of our community allows them to innovate new ways to reach underserved populations and better address the social determinants of health. Beyond providing exceptional care in our hospitals, our nurses provide treatment for patients in their homes, bring much needed care to homeless shelters and schools, and conduct research on how to better serve vulnerable populations in both clinical settings and in the community. Beyond the work of our nurses, this report contains many stories of how we continue to innovate care delivery strategies that meet our patients’ needs. These programs include partnering with community health workers and faith based groups to treat high blood pressure in South Asian and Black communities, bringing behavioral healthcare to underserved populations in Brooklyn, providing dental care to children and families in Queens, and reopening our free, medical student run community health clinic on Long Island. These programs show our commitment to ensuring access to healthcare across the region.Providing superlative care to more members of our community is top of mind for us at NYU Langone, which is why we are continuously expanding services in Brooklyn and Long Island. In Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, we opened the Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center, which includes an Emergency Department, cancer care, pediatric care, outpatient surgeries, and physician practices. In addition, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone opened a new Federally Qualified Health Center in Red Hook, Brooklyn, to provide services in primary care, pediatrics, women’s health, behavioral health, and dental care. On Long Island, we announced an affiliation with Long Island Community Hospital in Patchogue and opened new primary and specialty care practices nearby, making it easier than ever for patients to access quality healthcare close to home. New Yorkers are tough, talented, and compassionate, just like our nurses and other staff. We are proud to be an integral part of the community providing the people of this extraordinary region the best outcomes, including the No. 1 ranking nationally in observed to expected mortality according to Vizient, Inc., and top marks in quality and safety from U.S. News & World Report, the Leapfrog Group, and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. From the West Village to the East End, these are just some of the stories of how we provide one standard of high quality care and support the health of our community.Sincerely,Robert I. Grossman, MDDean and CEOMESSAGE FROM THE Dean and CEO5NYU Langone’s total community benefit contribution of $1.4 billion in investment equates to more than of the health system’s total expenditures for our fiscal year September 1, 2021, through August 31, 2022. Over of our total community benefit contribution is made up of expenses to cover charity and underfunded care for our patients.$1.4BILLIONIN COMMUNITYBENEFIT CONTRIBUTIONS$836.1 MILLIONCharity andUnderfunded Care +• Unreimbursed Cost of Care for Medicaid Beneficiaries: $366.9 M• Charity Care: $70.5 M• Other Subsidized Care: $81.6 M• Medicare Shortfall: $317.1 M$509.1 MILLIONPhysician Training and Research Support +• Health Professions Education Programs: $312.6 M• Medical Research Funding: $196.5 M$86.6 MILLIONCommunity Health Contributions +• Community Health Improvement: $35.2 M• Cash and In Kind: $49.8 M• Environmental Improvements: $1.2 M• Community Support: $0.4 M$1.4BILLIONMEASURING OUR IMPACT:Community Benefit Contributions6“The Magnet Recognition for exceptional nursing acknowledges what we already know: our nurses truly are the head, heart, and hands of the patient experience.”Debra Albert, DNP, MBA, RN, NEA BCChief Nursing Officer and Senior Vice President for Patient Care ServicesMagnet Status Recognizes Nursing Excellence across NYU Langone Health Magnet Recognition® is conferred by the American Nurses Credentialing Center to hospitals that demonstrate excellence in nursing practice and patient care. These hospitals are recognized for creating and sustaining an environment that promotes the highest level of nursing care, professionalism, and patient outcomes. The Magnet® status is based on a rigorous set of criteria, including leadership, organizational structure, nursing excellence, quality patient care, and innovation.By providing a framework for nursing practice that prioritizes patient safety and satisfaction, the American Nurses Credentialing Center aims to improve patient outcomes and to promote a culture of nursing excellence. Magnet hospitals are known for their high nurse satisfaction and retention rates, as well as their ability to attract top talent in nursing.NURSING IN THE CommunityMagnet Recognitionis achieved by only of hospitals in the nation.NYU Langone Health is the only health system in New York State to earn Magnet Recognition at all inpatient locations.NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklynis the only Hospital in Brooklynto earn Magnet Recognition.7Nurses Play Critical Roles in Patient Care ProgramsA New Program Brings the Hospital to the HomeNYU Langone Hospital­—Long Island’s Home Hospital program offers a subset of patients who would otherwise be hospitalized the option to receive inpatient care at home. Patients with a Medicare health plan who visit the Emergency Department with acute but stable conditions are evaluated by Emergency Department doctors and a nurse for enrollment.NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island tapped into its own physicians and nurses to build the program and manage patient care. A hospitalist meets remotely or in person with each patient daily. Field nurses visit patients at least twice daily to provide the highest quality of hands on care to patients in the comfort of their own home.Nurses Lead Medical Care in Homeless SheltersThe care team at Community Medicine Program—Family Health Centers at NYU Langone provides healthcare to adults through several New York City homeless services locations. Community Medicine clinics are located within 10 residential shelters for people who are experiencing housing issues, transitional living, or homelessness. Care teams at each clinic location include a registered nurse, doctor or nurse practitioner, psychiatric provider, social worker, and care manager.To further advance healthcare accessibility for New York City’s homeless population, the Nurse in Shelter program was created in collaboration with the Department of Homeless Services. The program utilizes dedicated teams of registered nurses and healthcare navigators to conduct screenings on site in shelters without clinics and connect patients to care. In each Nurse in Shelter team, a registered nurse performs initial assessments and a navigator guides patients through the health system. Registered nurses prioritize care based on necessity and refer patients to a higher level of care when needed.Nurse in Shelter teams can offer same day appointments with a nurse practitioner via telehealth appointments using iPads with software equipped for secure video visits. Nurse practitioners, with their advanced training and authority to diagnose and manage diseases, can provide comprehensive primary care, managing both chronic and acute health conditions. Since its inception in September 2021, the Nurse in Shelter program served 750 clients and facilitated 150 telehealth visits across shelters in Brooklyn, Manhattan, and the Bronx.Acute Hospital Care at HomeHome Hospital at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island earned approval from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services after the government agency launched the regulatory framework for providing care to patients outside a traditional hospital. The model is a promising opportunity to ease the burden on overstretched hospitals while improving patient outcomes.The Community Medicine Program’s Nurse in Shelter staff members Ted Tudor, a navigator, and nurse Gabriella Barrett, RN, connect with a client at a partnering homeless shelter in the Bronx. In each Nurse in Shelter team, a registered nurse performs initial assessments and a navigator guides patients through the health system.8Nurses Provide Their Expertise in Community SettingsStroke Awareness Education and OutreachNurses at NYU Langone’s Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases engage with community members to provide stroke awareness education and outreach at events in partnership with local community based organizations. The center also organizes a number of Community Stroke Health Fairs annually during Stroke Awareness Month in May. At community events in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island, nurses offer blood pressure screenings, stroke risk assessments, and educational information. Career Exploration: Hempstead High School PartnershipThe NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island’s Nurse Manager Council and nurses at the Hempstead High School’s health clinic, in collaboration with other healthcare professionals, have worked to provide students an immersive insight into daily hospital operations to explore a range of health careers, including nursing. Through observational learning and engaging in discussions with active staff members, the partnership serves as an exploratory platform for students to understand the vast career opportunities within healthcare.Injury Prevention OutreachNurses at the Level I Trauma Centers at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island provide a variety of educational workshops to reduce the risk of common injuries among community members of all ages. Workshops like these are provided at local schools for grades K 5.NURSING IN THE CommunityNirmala Rossan Raghunath, MSN, RN, stroke coordinator, offers blood pressure screenings at a community event in lower Manhattan.Nurses conduct a Teddy Bear Clinic, where bicycle, helmet, and car safety are reviewed. 9Research Led by Nurses Benefits Patient Care and Nursing Professional DevelopmentThe NYU Langone Health Department of Nursing’s Center for Innovations in the Advancement of Care (CIAC) hosts an annual nursing science conference to highlight nursing led research. Kathleen Evanovich Zavotsky, PhD, RN, system senior director of nursing research and program evaluation, and the CIAC team organize the annual conference as an opportunity for NYU Langone nurses to demonstrate their leadership in research, to network, and to learn from each other.Why is it important for nurses to lead research?With the constantly evolving healthcare landscape, nurses arealways pushing the envelope andstaying up to date on best practices to improve patient care.NYU Langone nurses conduct cutting edge research and contribute to developing new knowledge and advancing practice through research, publications, presentations, and other forms of scholarly dissemination.By participating in scholarly activity, nurses enhance their critical thinking and problem solving skills, develop a deeper understanding of healthcare issues, and ultimately improve the overall quality of nursing practice.Three Nursing Research Studies at NYU Langone1. The Nurse Manager Role of Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow: A Qualitative Study in an Academic Health SystemStatus: CompletedResearch Question: What is the evolving role of nurse managers in an academic health system over time?2. A Resilience Building Interprofessional Partnership in an Academic Health System: Museums, Libraries, and Nurses Working TogetherStatus: IRB Approved and in Progress Research Question: What is the impact of museum led workshops, conducted both on site and virtually by educators from The Metropolitan Museum of Art, on the continuing education of nurses?3. The Impact of Social Determinants of Health on Select Hospital Acquired Conditions in the Older Adult Population across the Health System: A Pilot StudyStatus: IRB Approved and Funded by the Daisy FoundationResearch Question: What are the clinical characteristics and social determinants of health that influence hospital acquired pressure injuries or falls in older adults in New York City?10EMERGENCY CARE AND Injury PreventionOlder Adults Receive Specialty, Fast Tracked Trauma Care to Improve OutcomesEmergency Medicine Program Aims to Prevent Head Injuries with Patient EducationBicycle crashes are a leading cause of physical injury to New Yorkers. Patients frequently present to our Emergency Departments after experiencing bicycle accidents, and these patients often need a new helmet because they did not wear one or wore one destroyed during the accident.As an emergency medicine physician and EMS medical director for the system, Reed Caldwell, MD, was inspired to create a head injury prevention initiative for patients who come to our Emergency Departments after being involved in a crash involving a bicycle, e bike, skateboard, rollerblades, or scooter. Patients in these circumstances are provided new helmets, reflective gear, and safety education resources.In Sunset Park and other neighborhoods served by NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, care for the elderly is a growing concern as the population ages. Seniors make up some of the patients admitted to the hospital’s Emergency Department, and falls account for about of their injuries.By designing a clinical protocol for seniors with fall related injuries who come to the Emergency Department, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn’s Level I Trauma Center has raised the bar for the level of care that seniors receive. The Geriatric Trauma Program’s implementation has resulted in a reduction in time spent waiting in the Emergency Department and improved outcomes for seniors as they recover.Today, when an elderly person arrives in the Emergency Department at NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn after a fall, or if they’re suspected of having sustained a head injury or long bone fracture, the patient is elevated to a status of urgency just below that applied to the most severe traumas. Within minutes, an attending physician in emergency medicine and a member of the trauma team are at the patient’s bedside, performing an evaluation and fast tracking lab tests and imaging studies. In the first 12 to 16 hours, a multidisciplinary care plan is in place that involves a physical therapist, a social worker, a dietician, and a pharmacist who ensures that none of the patient’s medications cause drowsiness or dizziness. These supports for seniors with fall injuries add up to improved care outcomes and a better care experience for our patients.The Geriatric Trauma Protocol has cut in half the amount of time that older adults spend in the Emergency Department for trauma care. Every month the Emergency Department and Trauma Services take care of over 100 injured patients over the age of 65.Photo: Joshua Bright11Athletic Trainers Help Student Athletes and Dancers to Prevent and Recover from InjuryNYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation services provide people with high quality care and the recovery resources for a variety of diagnosis and treatment needs. NYU Langone Sports Health and Harkness Center for Dance Injuries athletic trainers (ATs) are healthcare professionals working under the direction of physicians at Rusk Rehabilitation. ATs specialize in the prevention, assessment, emergent care, and treatment of concussion, musculoskeletal, and general medical conditions. ATs provide education, and in the event of an injury, the Sports Health and Harkness Center for Dance Injuries ATs work closely with the athlete, family, coaches, choreographers, and others to ensure a safe return to the sport or performance.NYU Langone Sports Health athletic trainers deliver high quality care for over 1,000 student athletes in NYC and Long Island. In addition, athletic trainers at the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries provide care for dancers and performers across New York City.Comprehensive, Five Story Multispecialty Care Center Opens in Cobble HillThis year, NYU Langone was proud to open the comprehensive Joseph S. and Diane H. Steinberg Ambulatory Care Center, a state of the art facility that offers an off campus, 24 hour Emergency Department, as well as cancer care, outpatient surgeries, and physician practices—across 165,000 square feet and five floors—in Brooklyn’s Cobble Hill. The robust physician practice includes 19 medical and surgical specialties throughout the new building, which also offers an infusion center and radiology and imaging services at the site of the former Long Island College Hospital. The new ambulatory care center enhances the breadth of high quality care NYU Langone offers in the Cobble Hill community and is conveniently located near mass transit.Photo: Rene Perez Photography Rusk Rehabilitation has been named the best rehabilitation programby U.S. News & World Report for more than 25 years.Ranked among Nation’s Best12HYPERTENSION ANDCommunity Health WorkersPatients with High Blood Pressure Who Partnered with Community Health Workers More Likely to Achieve Blood Pressure Control in South Asian CommunityPatients with hypertension paired with a community health worker (CHW) through their primary care practice were more than three and a half times as likely to achieve blood pressurecontrol within six months compared to patients who were not. Research led by Nadia S. Islam, PhD, associate professor in the Department of Population Health and associate director of the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity at NYU Langone, is the first to examine a CHW intervention in primary care practices that specifically serve South Asian Americans.While New York City is home to the country’s largest South Asian population, many have limited English proficiency, are disconnected from the healthcare system, and lack tailoredresources. Working in close partnership with primary care practices serving South Asian patients, the CHWs were uniquely positioned to help patients integrate their physicians’ recommendations into their lives and daily routines.This research suggests that similar CHW interventions could help other underserved immigrant communities experiencing similar disparities. The next phase of Dr. Islam’s research will examine the impact of CHW interventions on underserved patients with comorbidities, such as hypertension and diabetes, and eventually on mental health.Community Health Workers Improve Health OutcomesResearch at NYU Langone Health demonstrates that health interventions led by CHWs result in improvements in health outcomes for participants. Researchers have implemented programs involv ing CHWs to improve blood pressure in commu nity based settings, including barbershops and churches, as well as in partnership with clinics and primary care practices that serve racially and ethnically diverse communities in New York City. CHWs are lay members of a community who usually share ethnicity, language, income level, and/or life experiences with the people they serve. A key component of their success is the CHWs’ ability to adapt evidence based practices to offer culturally sensitive and linguistically appropriate health coaching.Other NYU Langone research involving CHWs includes efforts to improve cancer screening and prevention, diabetes prevention and management, and hypertension control in communities beyond New York City.CHWs Mursheda Ahmed and Gulnahar Alam offer culturally sensitive and linguistically appropriate health coaching. NYU Langone researchers have implemented programs involving CHWs to improve health outcomes in racially and ethnically diverse communities in New York City.Photo: Department of Population Health13Directed by Gbenga Ogedegbe, MD, MPH, the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity at NYU Langone launched a faith based network to partner with faith leaders and communities to address issues of health inequities in communities of color. The purpose of the network is to bring together faith based leaders and share resources to support faith communities’ spiritual and physical health.Photo: Mike WeymouthFaith Based Intervention Led by Community Health Workers Reduces Hypertension in Black Communities A lifestyle intervention delivered in churches by CHWs led to a significant reduction in blood pressure among AfricanAmericans compared to health education alone. Research led by Gbenga G. Ogedegbe, MD, MPH, professor in theDepartment of Population Health at NYU Langone and director of the Institute for Excellence in Health Equity, showsthat CHWs using a faith based intervention delivered in churches were able to significantly reduce and managehypertension in Black communities.Dr. Ogedegbe and his team found that after six months, participants in the faith based intervention group saw a netreduction of 5.8 millimeters of mercury in systolic blood pressure. According to Dr. Ogedegbe, if sustained over four tofive years, this reduction can reduce heart attacks and strokes by at least .Since the findings of this research study, Dr. Ogedegbe has explored additional opportunities to adapt healthinterventions in faith based settings and to utilize CHWs and other lay health workers. As the director of the Institutefor Excellence in Health Equity at NYU Langone, Dr. Ogedegbe leads partnerships with faith based communities toimprove health across geographic areas served by NYU Langone, including New York City and Long Island.14Innovative Treatment Program for the Underserved in Brooklyn with Serious Mental IllnessWhile the Family Health Centers (FHCs) at NYU Langone outpatient psychiatric clinic has provided traditional psychiatric care to underserved communities in Brooklyn for over 50 years, an innovative treatment program offers a new team based model of care for patients. The EnTRy program, named for Enhanced Treatment and Recovery, was launched with help from a $5 million federal grant from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.In the new, evidence based treatment model, patients with serious mental illnesses, such as bipolar disorders, major depression with psychosis, and schizophrenia benefit from coordinated care provided by a team of providers: psychiatrists, a nurse, social workers, patient navigators, a case manager, peer specialists, and team supervisor.To meet patients where they are and maintain contact with patients who are at risk of disengaging from treatment, the EnTRy program at the FHCs at NYU Langone employs unique staff roles as part of the innovative approach, including patient navigators, peer specialists, and a case manager.Patients include those already engaged in care through the FHCs at NYU Langone, as well as patients who sought acute care for mental health needs at the NYU Langone Hospital­—Brooklyn Emergency Department or psychiatric unit. Patient navigators meet patients in the hospital at discharge to offer friendly support, establish trust, facilitate the transition to community treatment, and help ensure continuity of care—often barriers to success for this patient group.BEHAVIORAL HEALTH IN THE CommunityUnique Mental Health Staff Roles• Patient navigators, who share cultural and language backgrounds with Sunset Park area residents, visit community members in their homes, escort patients to their appointments, and help them overcome barriers to accessing care.• Peer specialists, who have themselves received treatment for similar mental health issues, receive special training to be part of the care team. Their lived experience is valuable as they engage patients, connect patients to care, help patients feel safe in treatment environments, and encourage patients to stick with services. This is a new role certified by the New York State Office of Mental Health.• The case manager helps patients access resources to address the social determinants of health, including résumé writing and applications for social services, health insurance, food, and housing.Services are based at the Sunset Terrace site of the Family Health Centers in Sunset Park, Brooklyn.The EnTRy program has now served more than 830 patients with individual counseling and psychiatric care. Additional supports have helped patients stay engaged in care and connected patients to other services.15Expanding Medical Education and Psychiatric Care in BrooklynIn July 2022, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone welcomed its inaugural class of psychiatry residents, three newly graduated medical doctors who chose to make a career in psychiatry. They will spend the next four years working at the FHCs at NYU Langone and affiliated hospitals, with a special focus on delivering mental healthcare treatment in community settings. Residents are immersed in the heart of Brooklyn’s Sunset Park, a rich neighborhood home to large immigrant populations where demand for behavioral healthcare far outpaces access.Residents work alongside experienced psychiatrists, nurses,therapists, and community health workers to offer comprehensive mental healthcare treatment. They treat patients in a neighborhood based outpatient clinic in Sunset Park, at schools, virtually via telehealth programs, and on site in several nearby shelters for people experiencing homelessness. The residency also includes traditional hospital rotations in NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn and New York Health+Hospitals/Bellevue, which is affiliated with NYU Grossman School of Medicine.The FHCs at NYU Langone’s new psychiatry residency is made possible by funding from the Health Resources and Services Administration with the express purpose of developing the next generation of leaders in community and public psychiatry. The new residency program aims to increase access to high quality healthcare in Brooklyn by expanding graduate medical education in the community health setting. A 2016 NIH funded study of health training centers found that residents that train in community health centers are more likely to stay working in an underserved community.Prioritizing Mental Health in Pregnancy CareNYU Langone Health is the first academic medical center in New York State to achieve advanced certification in perinatal care, a designation earned by all three hospital campuses that offer obstetric care. The new Joint Commission certification reflects the highest standards in obstetrics care across Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island hospitals—home to 15,000 births annually.The advanced certification measures emphasize trauma informed care, social assessments, and mental health. Since trauma informed care is rooted in patient communication, a series of new questions was added within Epic, the institution’s electronic health record system. Among other measures, patients are queried to assess their risk for postpartum depression and other mood disorders and the need for assistance connecting with local mental health services.Psychiatry resident Luan Garcia, MD, speaks at the press conference held at the Sunset Terrace FHC to announce funding for the new psychiatry residency program.Baby Friendly HospitalsNYU Langone’s Tisch Hospital, NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, and NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island are designated Baby Friendly Hospitals, recognizing our dedication to breastfeeding support and mother baby bonding.Advanced certification in perinatal careNYU Langone Health is the first academic medical center in New York State to achieve advanced certification in perinatal care from the Joint Commission, awarded across all three hospital campuses.Recognized for Our Birthing Care16Lynn Gargano, DDS, clinical director of the School Based Dental Health Program, with a first grade student at PS/MS 333 in Far Rockaway, Queens. Through the expansion of the School Based Dental Health Program in Queens, nearly 700 children received dental care this school year.DENTAL CARE IN THECommunity25,000 studentsserved at 59 public schools across New York CityGeneral and pediatric dentists and a hygienist offer the following services:Dental exams, X rays, cleanings, fluoride treatment, dental sealants, fillings, extractions, and emergency dental careSchool Based Dental Health ProgramThe Family Health Centers at NYU Langone’s School Based Dental Health Program offers children access to high quality dental care in 59 public schools across all five boroughs. Annually, the program provides comprehensive dentistry and oral health education for 25,000 students citywide with no out of pocket costs to children and their families. Most recently, the program expanded into Queens with four new sites in the Rockaways and Corona Park.The School Based Dental Health Program meets a particularly pressing need. More than half of the children seen through the FHCs at NYU Langone’s school based clinics have no other access to a dental provider. Screening events held to raise awareness about the new services found that more than one third of children at the Queens schools currently being served had tooth decay. Children with dental pain may miss school, and for many parents, taking time off work to take a child to the dentist, and the cost of care, are potentially daunting challenges.To bring dental care where it is most needed, the FHCs at NYU Langone partners with the New York City Department of Education to target high need schools, using data that includes average neighborhood income and the number of free lunches provided at the school. Another factor for consideration in opening school based dental clinics is access to dental care in the area.The School Based Dental Health Program expansion to Queens includes schools with D75 programs. These programs offer instructional support for school age children with developmental challenges, including autism disorders, emotional disturbances, and disabilities. Expansion of services into D75 programs represents a significant enhancement to the School Based Dental Health Program, given the creation of sustainable pathways to care for children with disabilities.Dental Care Gives Children and Families in Queens Good Reason to Smile17Dental Training Programs for Recent Dental School Graduates Bring Oral Care to Underserved Communities Nationwide NYU Langone Dental Medicine comprises five postdoctoral dental residency programs for dentists providing oral healthcare services to underserved communities inBrooklyn, NY, as well as across the country.NYU Langone Dental Medicine Postdoctoral Residency Programs provide access to dental care in underserved communities while preparing the next generation of dental health professionals. The programs have become a national model in dental education, training more than 400 residents annually in health centers, tribal organizations, and other community service programs across the United States,Puerto Rico, and US Virgin Islands.NYU Langone Dental Medicine is dedicated and compassionate about correcting healthcare inequalities. Our residents provide care to patients who would otherwise not have access to oral healthcare services.Transitions from Training to PracticeNYU Langone Dental Medicine residents provide dental care at over 100 different affiliate organizations with more than 300 training sites across the United States, Puerto Rico, and US Virgin Islands.NYU Langone Dental Medicine is a workforce pipeline for safety net clinics, with many alumni returning to work in the health centers where they trained. Some accept positions with NYU Langone Dental Medicine immediately following graduation while others return years later.Dental residents at the NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island campus reviewing a patient’s radiographs.From Patient to Resident to FacultyOur dental residents train in six FHC sites inBrooklyn, NY. One of many residents whoreturned to our Brooklyn site was Imran Ahmed, DDS. Dr. Ahmed was a patient of the Sunset Park FHC as a child and also completed the General Practice Residency Program at NYU Langone. He is now the clinical director of dentistry at the Seventh Avenue FHC.18The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Expands into Red Hook, Brooklyn, to Enhance Access to High Quality HealthcareContinuing its mission to bring top quality, community based healthcare to New Yorkers and reduce health inequities, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone has expanded in Red Hook, Brooklyn, with the opening of a state of the art medical facility and new school based clinic.The team at the new, nearly 4,500 square foot Red Hook FHC provides primary care, pediatrics, women’s health, behavioral health, and dental care services. Support services are also available on site, connecting patients to social and health networks to address food insecurity and offer workforce development opportunities. Lab work and dental imaging are also performed on site. The Red Hook FHC will also provide access to multilingual translation services for patients.In addition to the outpatient care center, the FHCs at NYU Langone will also open a second school based clinic at PS 676 in Red Hook in the coming months. The FHCs at NYU Langone also operates a school based clinic in PS 15 in Red Hook, as well as more than 50 other school based health clinics citywide.In partnership with Red Hook community leaders, the FHCs at NYU Langone participated in a community baby shower hosted by Jacqui Painter, district leader for New York State Assembly District 51. Staff from the FHCs at NYU Langone shared information on services, including primary and specialty care for adults and children, and highlighted the opening of the new site in Red Hook.COMMUNITY HEALTH AND Subsidized CareThe FHCs at NYU Langone provides affordable, quality care primarily in Sunset Park and Flatbush, as well as through schools and shelters citywide. The new FHC site will bring this high quality care to residents of Red Hook, Brooklyn.19A Free Student Run Community Health Clinic Reopens on Long IslandPaused since the start of COVID, the Wellness Initiative Student Run Health (WISH) Clinic reopened in a new space in Hempstead at the beginning of 2023, bringing essential services to uninsured and underinsured patients on Long Island.The WISH Clinic is entirely student run, with a board composed of medical students. Patients at the clinic are seen by medical students in conjunction with attending physicians from the NYU Langone Department of Family Medicine. The medical students also run the clinic’s daily operations, scheduling visits, checking in patients, managing the free pharmacy, and supporting fundraising efforts.The WISH Clinic operates as a partnership between NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and RotaCare, a free volunteer based health clinic founded by members of the Mineola Garden City Rotary Club. RotaCare provides free liability and malpractice insurance for the program and credential verification for the hospital’s attending physicians and staff who volunteer for the clinic.The WISH Clinic is open once a month on Saturdays and provides primary care and health screenings for uninsured and underinsured patients on Long Island.“The WISH Clinic gives future doctors a chance to participate in every aspect of healthcare delivery and service learning, while also providing a valuable community service to the uninsured people of Nassau County.”Francis Faustino, MD Chair of the Department of Family Medicine at NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island and Clinical Director of the WISH ClinicCouncil Member Alexa Avilés receives a blood pressure screening at a health fair in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Numerous providers attended the event to educate community members about heart health, stroke prevention, and blood pressure awareness.NYU Langone Partners with Local Communities to Promote Health and Well Being During American Heart Month in February, NYU Langone Health partnered with New York City Council Member Alexa Avilés on a Heart Health Fair to offer blood pressure screenings and heart health education to the residents of Sunset Park and surrounding neighborhoods in South Brooklyn. The Heart Health Fair brought together providers and staff from NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Health Faculty Group Practice, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, the Stamp Out Cancer Brooklyn initiative of the Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU Langone, and a variety of community based organizations. This is one example among dozens of health fairs NYU Langone Health participates in each year to provide health education and share information about services and programs with the communities we serve.20IMPACTING HEALTH Beyond the Hospital WallsNew Online Tool Provides Health Snapshot of All 435 U.S. Congressional Districts Dashboard Data AnalysisThe Congressional District Health Dashboard’s analysis of the congressional district data reveals the following findings about key measures that impact the health of the population.Researchers at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, in partnership with the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, unveiled the Congressional District Health Dashboard, a new online tool that provides critical health data for all 435 congressional districts and the District of Columbia.The dashboard incorporates 35 key measures of health, such as deaths from cardiovascular disease and breast cancer, along with conditions that affect health, like housing affordability, broadband access, and unemployment.Until now, most of these data were not available at the congressional district level, nor were they compiled in a single location or easily available to the public.The Congressional District Health Dashboard offers users the ability to do the following:• Explore rigorous, nonpartisan data on health, education, poverty, and more by congressional district and compare these findings to state and national averages• Compare the rates of select metrics among different racial and ethnic groups within districts• View any congressional district’s snapshot, with all 35 measures compared to the national average, along with district specific population facts like age and racial and ethnic makeupA first of its kind tool, the Congressional District Health Dashboard equips congressional staff, federal and state advocates, journalists, researchers, and others with data on health and conditions that affect health in every congressional district across the country, fueling constituents’ and policymakers’ efforts to take action and drive change.Deaths from cardiovascular disease are lower in suburban districts at 194 deaths per 100,000, compared to urban and rural districts at 215 and 225 deaths per 100,000, respectively.Rent burden is lowest in rural districts at , and highest in districts along the coastal regions (California, the Northeast, and Florida) and urban congressional districts generally, at .Racial and ethnic disparitiesin low birth weight are observed across districts, with particularly stark disparities in Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, North Carolina, and South Carolina. In more than three quarters of the districts in these states, Black newborns are roughly twice as likely to be underweight at birth than White babies, with other racial and ethnic groups falling between.Data shown here is from 2020. See more at congressionaldistricthealthdashboard.org21Our Commitment to Carbon Neutrality by 2050In 2022, NYU Langone expanded its carbon reduction goal to carbon neutrality by 2050 through a commitment to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Health Sector Climate Pledge. We joined other leading health systems, representing more than 650 hospitals and thousands of other physician providers, to strengthen national resilience to climate change. NYU Langone is among just a handful of health systems in New York State to join this pledge. Our work to significantly reduce our carbon emissions will not only reduce the demand of natural resources through efficient operations and cleaner energy, but also build and support healthy and equitable communities.Clinical Sustainability Advisory BoardInitiatives Reduce Environmental FootprintCaring for our environment strengthens the health of ourcommunities. As we reduce our carbon emissions, we improve the quality of our air and water for generations to come. The Clinical Sustainability Advisory Board (CSAB) at NYU Langone comprises clinicians and staff leading initiatives that reduce our environmental footprint in clinical areas across the institution. This advisory board ideates and develops long term programs to build a culture of sustainability and to empower staff to take climate action within their roles. Members of CSAB have led a number of initiatives, such as reducing energy use in our operating rooms when not in use, organizing medical supply donations, and reducing our greenhouse gas emissions from anesthetic gases.Reducing Energy Use in Operating RoomsNursing staff are trained to activate a setback program when our operating rooms are not in use as an effort to reduce wasted energy. When activated, the program decreases ventilation rates while maintaining the required humidity, temperature, and pressure in a safe and compliant manner.There are more than 65 operating rooms across the healthsystem that participate, reducing our use of energy derived from fossil fuels, which contribute to air pollution.Donating Medical SuppliesNYU Langone donated 119,600 pounds of medical supplies and equipment last year to aid in relief efforts worldwide. These supplies were distributed to organizations on the ground for recovery efforts for Hurricane Fiona in Puerto Rico, the war torn regions of Ukraine, and earthquakes in Turkey and Syria. Thisprogram provides a second life for supplies no longer needed, diverts waste from landfill, and supports humanitarian efforts.Reducing Anesthetic Gas EmissionsWhile necessary in the healthcare environment, anesthetic gases are potent greenhouse gases by nature. Not all anesthetic gases are created equal, however—desflurane has a global warming potential (GWP) 10.6 times that of sevoflurane and 2.6 times that of isoflurane. In response, leadership in the NYU Langone Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative Care, and Pain Medicine removed desflurane from the anesthetics formulary in 2021. In addition, the team focuses on physician education around effective low fresh gas flow techniques thatreduce the overall use of anesthetic gases.CSAB members led an initiative to recycle rigid plastics used during surgical procedures and from supply packaging in a safe and streamlined process. This program diverts waste from landfill and reduces contamination of the recycling stream.22NYU Langone strives to provide medically necessary care to patients of their inpatient and outpatient facilities regardless of patients’ ability to pay for the services rendered. We’re here to help you navigate through any questions you have about your bill from NYU Langone, which includes our Manhattan hospitals (Tisch Hospital, Kimmel, Hassenfeld, Langone Orthopedic Hospital [LOH], Rusk Rehabilitation), NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, as well as associated outpatient locations.Payor Mix and Navigating Insurance CoverageNYU Langone participates in many health plan networks. Each health plan creates a network of doctors and hospitals who have agreed to be in that network. Some health plans use smaller networks for certain services, so it is important to check whether we participate in the specific plan that covers you. In 2022, of our inpatients were enrolled in a commercial or government sponsored insurance plan. Nearly two thirds of our inpatients were enrolled in a government sponsored insurance plan. If you do not have health insurance, please call us at 212 263 1481 to get information about an out of pocket cost estimate, or to learn more about our Financial Assistance Policy and your eligibility for subsidized health insurance through programs such as Medicaid.Price Transparency and Out of Pocket CostsOut of pocket costs for healthcare services may vary significantly across health systems, even for common procedures. At NYU Langone, we are committed to providing you with this information up front so that you can make the best choice for yourself and your family. We provide several tools to help you estimate your out of pocket costs through our website, nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistanceCharity Care and Financial Assistance PolicyIn the last fiscal year, NYU Langone Hospitals provided over $70M in charity care to our patients. NYU Langone Hospitals recognizes that there are times when patients in need of care will have difficulty paying for the services provided. The hospital provides discounts to qualifying individuals based on income. In addition, we can help you apply for free or low cost insurance if you qualify. Just contact one of our Financial Counseling Offices at these convenient locations for free, confidential assistance.Manhattan550 1st Avenue, Room SK866 486 9847Brooklyn150 55th Street, Suite LB 2940718 630 6252Long Island131 Mineola Blvd., Suite 105516 663 8373For more information, please visit our website at nyulangone.org/insurance billing financial assistanceMEASURING OUR IMPACT:Access to World Class Care2022 PAYOR MIX SELF PAY COMMERCIAL MEDICARE MEDICAID23The Office of Government and Community Affairs at NYU Langone Health collaborates with city, state, and federal officials, community boards, and community based organizations through partnerships that enhance the vibrancy of the communities in which our patients reside, and that provide services, programs, and events to the community at large.Contact the Office of Government and Community Affairs: Gilda Ventresca EcroydVice President, Government and Community Affairsgilda.ventresca ecroyd@nyulangone.orgAshley MorrisseySenior Director, State Affairsashley.morrissey@nyulangone.orgHannah WadeDirector, City Affairs and Public Policyhannah.wade@nyulangone.orgSara OstolazaManager, Community and City Affairssara.ostolaza@nyulangone.orgPatricia BarragaSenior Government Affairs Analystpatricia.barraga@nyulangone.orgRebecca BergerSenior Government Affairs Analystrebecca.berger@nyulangone.orgJames ToussaintPolicy Analystjames.toussaint@nyulangone.orgJonathan Martinez Community Affairs Coordinatorjonathan.martinez3@nyulangone.orgMyles DavisAdvisormyles.davis@nyulangone.orgElizabeth RomanExecutive Assistantelizabeth.roman@nyulangone.org24Office of Government and Community AffairsOne Park Avenue, 4th FloorNew York, NY 10016nyulangone.org/gcaAll NYU Langone Health inpatient locations earned Magnet Recognition for nursing excellence, making us the only hospital system in New York State to earn this status.Copyright © 2023 NYU Langone Health. All rights reserved.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Policy Any individual who has a complaint concerning NYU Langone Health’s HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures or NYU Langone Health’s compliance with those policies and procedures may file a complaint with NYU Langone Health, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the New York State Department of Health, or other appropriate oversight agency. NYU Langone Health will not intimidate, threaten, coerce, discriminate against, or retaliate against an individual for filing a complaint, assisting in an investigation, or for opposing any act or practice that the person believes in good faith is unlawful, so long as the manner of such opposition is reasonable and does not involve a Disclosure of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) in violation of HIPAA (see also Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Policy). NYU Langone Health will not require an individual to waive his or her rights granted by the HIPAA regulations as a condition to receive Treatment, Payment, enrollment in a health plan, or eligibility for benefits. • This includes the filing of a complaint with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or any other enforcement agency regarding NYU Langone Health’s compliance with HIPAA or state privacy regulations. Procedure If an individual wishes to file a complaint regarding patient care or services rendered with NYU Langone Health, they should be immediately directed to the appropriate Patient Relations Office (212 263 6906, main campus). If an individual wishes to file a compliance or HIPAA related complaint, they should be directed to the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) (212 404 4079), or the Compliance Helpline (1 866 NYU 1212 or online at https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com/gcs/welcome). IACERM will investigate, attempt to resolve, and document the complaint and resolution of all privacy complaints in coordination with the Patient Relations Office as necessary. All formal Page 2 of 2 grievances are referred to the Patient Relations Office for a coordinated investigation and response, in compliance with the Complaint and Grievance Policy. Related Documents Breach Notification Complaint and Grievance Policy Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Mitigation of HIPAA Related Incidents Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(d) 42 C.F.R. §482.13 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 7 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: 12/1/2014 Reissue Date: 8/1/2019 Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone is committed to ethical and legal conduct that complies with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and Institutional policies. This Policy sets forth the responsibilities of the NYU Langone Health community with respect to reporting and investigating compliance concerns and the prohibition on retaliation against an individual who, in good faith, reports noncompliance or suspected noncompliance that is illegal, fraudulent, in violation of an adopted policy, or in violation of federal, state, or local law and regulation. II. Policy Purpose To provide guidance on reporting, investigating, and resolving compliance concerns, in addition to setting forth NYU Langone Health’s commitment to encouraging an atmosphere that allows individuals who report compliance concerns in good faith under this Policy to be protected from retaliation. III. Applicability of the Policy This Policy applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. IV. Definitions Compliance Officer at NYU Langone Health is the Vice President of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). Institutional Policies includes, but is not limited to, the Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Program, and policies set forth in the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program contract, GME House Staff Manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Staff Handbook, Student Handbook, and the By laws of the Medical Staff. NYU Langone Health includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (the “FHC”); therefore, for the purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the FHC, and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded. Page 2 of 7 V. Policy A. Duties. Members of the NYU Langone Health community have a duty to:  report compliance concerns,  assist and cooperate in any investigation,  complete any required training or corrective action, and  take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and Institutional Policies. Individuals are encouraged to contact IACERM, the Compliance Officer, or one of the helplines described below, for clarification or advice in the event of any question regarding a compliance concern. B. Non Retaliation. Individuals who in good faith report compliance concerns, or cooperate in an investigation, are protected from retaliatory academic or employment action, including, but not limited to: discharge, reassignment, demotion, unjustified negative performance reviews, denial of promotion, suspension, harassment, increased surveillance, other discrimination, or in the case of volunteer, trustee, or other sponsored individual, removal. Examples of retaliation and intimidation also include threats of the above mentioned actions. Retaliation does not include disciplinary action taken against an employee as a result of the employee’s own violation(s) of laws, rules, policies, procedures, or negative comments in an otherwise positive or neutral evaluation, or negative comments that are justified by an employee’s poor work performance or history. C. Related Policies. In consultation with the Compliance Officer and IACERM, departments at NYU Langone Health develop and maintain compliance standards, policies, and procedures specific to their department and ensure any required NYU Langone Health wide training, such as the Annual Compliance Training (including but not limited to fraud, waste, and abuse topics) is completed by applicable individuals within the department. D. Responsibility. Employees are not excused from continuing to perform their job duties or following their department’s rules, policies, and procedures because they have filed a complaint or have participated in an investigation. This Policy is neither a contract of employment nor does it create any rights or expectations regarding continued employment or benefits at NYU Langone Health. Reporting All individuals covered by this Policy have a duty to immediately report compliance suspicions or concerns. Compliance concerns include, but are not limited to:  fraud, waste, and abuse (e.g., billing violations/false claims)  Code of Conduct violations  NYU Langone Health policy and procedure violations (e.g., saving NYU Langone Health protected data to an unencrypted portable device)  illegal acts, such as corruption, bribery, theft, or misuse of NYU Langone Health property  potential danger to the public or employees’ health, safety, and security  research protocol violations  general compliance violations Page 3 of 7  HIPAA violations (e.g., loss of protected health information) Concerns can be reported via several avenues:  to an immediate supervisor or other superior within the academic or administrative unit, as applicable, who can then report to IACERM as necessary o If a report has been made to a supervisor and the reporter believes that action has not been taken, a report should be made through one of the below avenues. o If the reporter believes that the supervisor or other superior may be involved in the issue, another avenue to report should be used.  to the Compliance Officer directly or to IACERM by phone (212 404 4079) or email (ComplianceHelp@nyulangone.org)  anonymously to the Compliance Helpline by phone (1 866 NYU 1212) or by web at https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com  to the HIPAA Helpline, when the matter is specifically related to HIPAA, by phone (1 877 PHI LOSS) or by web at https://www.incidentform.com/HIPAA.nyulmc.jsp  to Human Resources Employee Relations at 212 404 3857  to the Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075  to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) hotline at 1 800 HHS TIPS  to the New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General at 1 877 873 7283  as otherwise permitted or available under an applicable New York University policy In compliance with federal and state law, and in accordance with this Policy, IACERM will work to ensure that there will be no intimidation of or retaliation against any individual who reports, in good faith, any compliance concern. Reported compliance concerns are considered to be made in bad faith if they are made maliciously or with reckless disregard for their truth or falsity. Individuals making reports in bad faith may be subject to disciplinary or other employment action by NYU Langone Health. Investigating IACERM is responsible for investigating all reported compliance concerns, including claims of retaliation against individuals covered by this Policy. IACERM will utilize all reasonable and appropriate methods to determine the facts and circumstances related to an allegation or concern and to determine if a violation occurred, and the nature of any such violation. For issues reported to IACERM, but outside the scope of IACERM, the concern will be referred to a subject matter expert in a related department for investigation (e.g., Human Resources for workplace conduct; Security for theft). For non compliance related concerns reported directly to leadership, Human Resources, or the Office of Legal Counsel, the respective department will follow their procedures for addressing the concern, and will involve IACERM as appropriate. Determinations on escalation and notification of all reported concerns will be made based on the seriousness and potential impact of the reported concern. Reports may fall into three levels, as described below, and the preliminary assessment will direct the initial response.  Level 1: Reports that do not relate to internal controls and are most often human resource matters or patient experience complaints (non safety matters). For example, an employee complaint about not receiving approval for time off or a patient receiving another patient’s discharge summary. The response to level one reports will follow the process specific to Page 4 of 7 the complaint, for example privacy breaches in accordance with IACERM internal procedures.  Level 2: Reports that may involve or indicate a deficiency in the effectiveness of internal controls or are more serious or extensive in nature than a level 1 report. This level of allegation may have the potential to rise to the level of serious monetary or reputational harm. For example, business expense impropriety, theft of time, information security concerns, or research misconduct allegations. Professional misconduct allegations or patient care complaints may also fall into this level. If the issue is compliance related, IACERM will conduct the investigation, often in collaboration with Human Resources and/or the department, depending on the nature of the report (e.g., nursing or physician leadership, FGP). If non compliance related, Human Resources, the appropriate department, or the appropriate process or committee will investigate. For example, professional misconduct cases will proceed in accordance with the NYU Langone Health Medical Staff Bylaws and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel.  Level 3: Reports that have the potential to impact the completeness and accuracy of the financial statements, could indicate a material weakness in internal controls, or otherwise involve executive leadership. Level 3 reports are escalated to the General Counsel, who will advise and consult with the CEO and the NYU Langone Health System Board of Trustees (“Board”), through its Chairman and/or through the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee (“Committee”). The Board and/or Committee will be notified of all level 3 reports and have the decision making authority to direct retention of outside counsel and/or investigators as necessary and appropriate. In the event a reported concern involves or appears to involve a member of executive or senior management or leadership or involves serious, sensitive, or criminal conduct, the Compliance Officer and/or General Counsel, at their discretion, may also determine to utilize a qualified external party to conduct an investigation. This ability shall not be impeded by any member of executive leadership and the Compliance Officer may bring the concern to the Committee should s/he encounter any resistance or disagreement. Per the Committee’s Charter, the Committee shall have the full authority to conduct any review or investigation it deems appropriate to fulfilling its responsibilities and to retain, at NYU Langone Health’s expense, special legal, accounting, or other consultants or experts it deems necessary in the performance of its duties. IACERM may also consult, at their discretion, with external subject matter experts for certain matters pertaining to an investigation as necessary and appropriate. IACERM shall have access to and be provided with any documentation that may be relevant to any compliance investigation, including access to individuals’ NYU Langone Health email account with the approval of the General Counsel and/or a Senior Vice President. No member of the NYU Langone Health community shall knowingly or recklessly alter, destroy, mutilate, conceal, cover up, or falsify any record or document with the intent to impede any investigation or that is relevant to such investigation. No member of the NYU Langone Health community may record, including video and/or voice, any interview conducted by IACERM and/or Human Resources pursuant to this Policy without specific pre confirmed approval from the Compliance Officer, General Counsel, or Senior Vice President of Human Resources. Page 5 of 7 Confidentiality Individuals may be asked to assist in investigations and are responsible for providing accurate facts within a reasonable period. Reasonable and appropriate efforts will be made to maintain confidentiality or reporter anonymity to the extent feasible to conduct a thorough investigation and to the extent possible under applicable law. Should disciplinary or legal action be taken against a person or persons as a result of a report, such persons may also have the legal right to know the reporter’s identity. Members of the NYU Langone Health community have a duty to maintain the confidentiality of a reported concern and any ongoing or completed investigation and refrain from discussing these matters except as needed to assist NYU Langone Health and IACERM with its investigation. The inappropriate disclosure of confidential information relating to an investigation under this Policy will be viewed as a serious disciplinary offense. This section is not intended to preclude any member of the NYU Langone Health community from reporting, as otherwise legally permitted, to any local, state, or federal agency, including an accreditation or otherwise regulatory agency. VI. General Procedures for Investigations 1. IACERM will acknowledge receipt of any reported issue within three (3) business days. 2. Concerns received by IACERM but not via one of the helplines will be logged manually into the helpline log by IACERM, including the nature of the concern, all relevant dates, and known parties involved. 3. IACERM will establish a preliminary plan to conduct the investigation and involve other parties as necessary to appropriately and thoroughly address all concerns based on the seriousness and potential impact of the report. For example, IACERM may conduct interviews and request documentation (including emails, memos, etc.). 4. IACERM will document the investigation and process in the helpline log, for example:  methods used for analysis  summary or notes from any interviews, conversations, etc.  description and/or reference to any documents collected or reviewed during the investigation  any findings or conclusions  recommendations for corrective or remedial actions (e.g., new compliance controls, broadcast notification reminders, re training, and disciplinary action)  reference to notifications or reports (e.g., federal or state authorities or internal reports)  any other information gathered relevant to the investigation and outcome 5. Upon discovery of any fraud, waste, abuse, or other similar illegal activity, IACERM will engage the necessary parties to stop further illegal action from taking place. IACERM will assist the involved parties in taking appropriate corrective action to mitigate inappropriate past activity. Page 6 of 7 6. All relevant documentation will be retained in the helpline number associated folder on IACERM’s network drive. Access to this drive is limited to designated IACERM staff in order to protect confidentiality associated with the reported compliance concern. 7. The Compliance Officer will provide the Committee with reports concerning the implementation of and compliance with this Policy when requested or as necessary, but at least annually. In addition, IACERM will report and refer any criminal activity to the appropriate legal authorities as necessary or required by law. VII. Policy Enforcement A. The Compliance Officer, in conjunction with IACERM, is responsible for administering and distributing this Policy to all members of the NYU Langone Health community. A copy of this Policy is available on the NYU Langone Health website: http://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/general compliance. B. The Committee has oversight of the adoption and implementation of, and compliance with, this Policy. The Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and adopting any revisions to this Policy. As necessary, the Committee will report to the NYU Audit and Compliance Committee any issues arising under this Policy that rise to a material level. C. Individuals who are found to be noncompliant with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, or the Institutional Policies, including any violation of this Policy, may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the individual in question. Having knowledge of inappropriate conduct and choosing not to report is, in itself, a violation of this Policy. VIII. Administration All documentation related to reported compliance concerns, including investigation related notes, and any documentation related to corrective action or training will be maintained in accordance with applicable law and NYU Langone Health’s Record Retention Policy. IX. Related Policies and Documents Breach Notification By laws of the Medical Staff Code of Conduct Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process Guide Corporate Compliance Program Faculty Handbook GME House Staff Manual Human Resources Policies and Procedures: Policy 1.1 Code of Conduct Policy Notice to Employees Concerning Rights and Remedies Under the Pilot Program for Enhancement of Employee Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. 4712) Page 7 of 7 Postdoctoral Handbook Preventing and Reporting Suspicions of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Residency Training Program Contract Responding to Government Investigations and Law Enforcement Requests Staff Handbook Student Handbook X. Legal Authority/References Federal Deficit Reduction Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1396a(a)(68) Federal False Claims Act 31 U.S.C. § 3729 3731 New York State Department of Health Office of Medicaid Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for General Hospitals, N.Y. Soc. Serv. Law § 363 d(1), (2) and (4); 18 N.Y.C.R.R. § 521.1(a) and § 521.3(a) New York State False Claims Act, State Finance Law, §187 194 New York State Nonprofit Revitalization Act of 2013, Non For Profit Corporation Law, §715 b OIG Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 63 Federal Register 8987, February 23, 1998, Federal Sentencing Guidelines OIG Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 70 Federal Register 4858, January 31, 2005 Pilot Program for Enhancement of Contractor Protection from Reprisal for Disclosure of Certain Information, 41 U.S.C. § 4712 IV. Version History December 1, 2014 Original Policy September 26, 2016 Reviewed and Revised September 12, 2018 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2019 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 7 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective Date: 12/1/2014 Reissue Date: 4/1/2024 Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation I. Summary of Policy NYU Langone is committed to ethical and legal conduct that complies with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and Institutional policies. This Policy sets forth the responsibilities of the NYU Langone Health community with respect to reporting and investigating compliance concerns and the prohibition on retaliation against an individual who, in good faith, reports noncompliance or suspected noncompliance that is illegal, fraudulent, in violation of an adopted policy, or in violation of federal, state, or local law and regulation. II. Policy Purpose To provide guidance on reporting, investigating, and resolving compliance concerns, in addition to setting forth NYU Langone Health’s commitment to encouraging an atmosphere that allows individuals who report compliance concerns in good faith under this Policy to be protected from retaliation. III. Applicability of the Policy This Policy applies to employees, trustees, officers, faculty, medical staff, residents, fellows, students, volunteers, trainees, vendors, contractors, subcontractors, independent contractors, consultants, sponsored individuals, and agents of NYU Langone Health. IV. Definitions Compliance Officer at NYU Langone Health is the Vice President of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”). Institutional Policies includes, but is not limited to, the Code of Conduct, Corporate Compliance Program, and policies set forth in the Faculty Handbook, Residency Training Program contract, GME House Staff Manual, Postdoctoral Handbook, Staff Handbook, Student Handbook, and the By laws of the Medical Staff. NYU Langone Health includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals (including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU School of Medicine, NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy has also been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone (the “FHC”); therefore, for the purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the FHC, and any entity controlled by it, except where specifically excluded. Page 2 of 7 V. Policy A. Duties. Members of the NYU Langone Health community have a duty to: • report compliance concerns, • assist and cooperate in any investigation, • complete any required training or corrective action, and • take all reasonable steps necessary to ensure compliance with all federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, and Institutional Policies. Individuals are encouraged to contact IACERM, the Compliance Officer, or one of the helplines described below, for clarification or advice in the event of any question regarding a compliance concern. B. Non Retaliation. Individuals who in good faith report compliance concerns, or cooperate in an investigation, are protected from retaliatory academic or employment action, including, but not limited to: discharge, reassignment, demotion, unjustified negative performance reviews, denial of promotion, suspension, harassment, increased surveillance, other discrimination, or in the case of volunteer, trustee, or other sponsored individual, removal. Examples of retaliation and intimidation also include threats of the above mentioned actions. Retaliation does not include disciplinary action taken against an employee as a result of the employee’s own violation(s) of laws, rules, policies, procedures, or negative comments in an otherwise positive or neutral evaluation, or negative comments that are justified by an employee’s poor work performance or history. C. Related Policies. In consultation with the Compliance Officer and IACERM, departments at NYU Langone Health develop and maintain compliance standards, policies, and procedures specific to their department and ensure any required NYU Langone Health wide training, such as the Annual Compliance Training (including but not limited to fraud, waste, and abuse topics) is completed by applicable individuals within the department. D. Responsibility. Employees are not excused from continuing to perform their job duties or following their department’s rules, policies, and procedures because they have filed a complaint or have participated in an investigation. This Policy is neither a contract of employment nor does it create any rights or expectations regarding continued employment or benefits at NYU Langone Health. Reporting All individuals covered by this Policy have a duty to immediately report compliance suspicions or concerns. Compliance concerns include, but are not limited to: • fraud, waste, and abuse (e.g., billing violations/false claims) • Code of Conduct violations • NYU Langone Health policy and procedure violations (e.g., saving NYU Langone Health protected data to an unencrypted portable device) • illegal acts, such as corruption, bribery, theft, or misuse of NYU Langone Health property • potential danger to the public or employees’ health, safety, and security • research protocol violations • general compliance violations Page 3 of 7 • HIPAA violations (e.g., loss of protected health information) Concerns can be reported via several avenues: • to an immediate supervisor or other superior within the academic or administrative unit, as applicable, who can then report to IACERM as necessary o If a report has been made to a supervisor and the reporter believes that action has not been taken, a report should be made through one of the below avenues. o If the reporter believes that the supervisor or other superior may be involved in the issue, another avenue to report should be used. • to the Compliance Officer directly or to IACERM by phone (212 404 4079) or email (ComplianceHelp@nyulangone.org) • anonymously to the Compliance Helpline by phone (1 866 NYU 1212) or by web at https://compliancenyulmc.alertline.com • to the HIPAA Helpline, when the matter is specifically related to HIPAA, by phone (1 877 PHI LOSS) or by web at https://www.incidentform.com/HIPAA.nyulmc.jsp • to Human Resources Employee Relations at 212 404 3857 • to the Office of Legal Counsel at 212 404 4075 • to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) hotline at 1 800 HHS TIPS • to the New York State Office of the Medicaid Inspector General at 1 877 873 7283 • as otherwise permitted or available under an applicable New York University policy In compliance with federal and state law, and in accordance with this Policy, IACERM will work to ensure that there will be no intimidation of or retaliation against any individual who reports, in good faith, any compliance concern. Reported compliance concerns are considered to be made in bad faith if they are made maliciously or with reckless disregard for their truth or falsity. Individuals making reports in bad faith may be subject to disciplinary or other employment action by NYU Langone Health. Investigating IACERM is responsible for investigating all reported compliance concerns, including claims of retaliation against individuals covered by this Policy. IACERM will utilize all reasonable and appropriate methods to determine the facts and circumstances related to an allegation or concern and to determine if a violation occurred, and the nature of any such violation. For issues reported to IACERM, but outside the scope of IACERM, the concern will be referred to a subject matter expert in a related department for investigation (e.g., Human Resources for workplace conduct; Security for theft). For non compliance related concerns reported directly to leadership, Human Resources, or the Office of Legal Counsel, the respective department will follow their procedures for addressing the concern, and will involve IACERM as appropriate. Determinations on escalation and notification of all reported concerns will be made based on the seriousness and potential impact of the reported concern. Reports may fall into three levels, as described below, and the preliminary assessment will direct the initial response. • Level 1: Reports that do not relate to internal controls and are most often human resource matters or patient experience complaints (non safety matters). For example, an employee complaint about not receiving approval for time off or a patient receiving another patient’s discharge summary. The response to level one reports will follow the process specific to Page 4 of 7 the complaint, for example privacy breaches in accordance with IACERM internal procedures. • Level 2: Reports that may involve or indicate a deficiency in the effectiveness of internal controls or are more serious or extensive in nature than a level 1 report. This level of allegation may have the potential to rise to the level of serious monetary or reputational harm. For example, business expense impropriety, theft of time, information security concerns, or research misconduct allegations. Professional misconduct allegations or patient care complaints may also fall into this level. If the issue is compliance related, IACERM will conduct the investigation, often in collaboration with Human Resources and/or the department, depending on the nature of the report (e.g., nursing or physician leadership, FGP). If non compliance related, Human Resources, the appropriate department, or the appropriate process or committee will investigate. For example, professional misconduct cases will proceed in accordance with the NYU Langone Health Medical Staff Bylaws and in consultation with the Office of Legal Counsel. • Level 3: Reports that have the potential to impact the completeness and accuracy of the financial statements, could indicate a material weakness in internal controls, or otherwise involve executive leadership. Level 3 reports are escalated to the General Counsel, who will advise and consult with the CEO and the NYU Langone Health System Board of Trustees (“Board”), through its Chairman and/or through the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee (“Committee”). The Board and/or Committee will be notified of all level 3 reports and have the decision making authority to direct retention of outside counsel and/or investigators as necessary and appropriate. In the event a reported concern involves or appears to involve a member of executive or senior management or leadership or involves serious, sensitive, or criminal conduct, the Compliance Officer and/or General Counsel, at their discretion, may also determine to utilize a qualified external party to conduct an investigation. This ability shall not be impeded by any member of executive leadership and the Compliance Officer may bring the concern to the Committee should s/he encounter any resistance or disagreement. Per the Committee’s Charter, the Committee shall have the full authority to conduct any review or investigation it deems appropriate to fulfilling its responsibilities and to retain, at NYU Langone Health’s expense, special legal, accounting, or other consultants or experts it deems necessary in the performance of its duties. IACERM may also consult, at their discretion, with external subject matter experts for certain matters pertaining to an investigation as necessary and appropriate. IACERM shall have access to and be provided with any documentation that may be relevant to any compliance investigation, including access to individuals’ NYU Langone Health email account with the approval of the General Counsel and/or a Senior Vice President. No member of the NYU Langone Health community shall knowingly or recklessly alter, destroy, mutilate, conceal, cover up, or falsify any record or document with the intent to impede any investigation or that is relevant to such investigation. No member of the NYU Langone Health community may record, including video and/or voice, any interview conducted by IACERM and/or Human Resources pursuant to this Policy without specific pre confirmed approval from the Compliance Officer, General Counsel, or Senior Vice President of Human Resources. Page 5 of 7 Confidentiality Individuals may be asked to assist in investigations and are responsible for providing accurate facts within a reasonable period. Reasonable and appropriate efforts will be made to maintain confidentiality or reporter anonymity to the extent feasible to conduct a thorough investigation and to the extent possible under applicable law. Should disciplinary or legal action be taken against a person or persons as a result of a report, such persons may also have the legal right to know the reporter’s identity. Members of the NYU Langone Health community have a duty to maintain the confidentiality of a reported concern and any ongoing or completed investigation and refrain from discussing these matters except as needed to assist NYU Langone Health and IACERM with its investigation. The inappropriate disclosure of confidential information relating to an investigation under this Policy will be viewed as a serious disciplinary offense. This section is not intended to preclude any member of the NYU Langone Health community from reporting, as otherwise legally permitted, to any local, state, or federal agency, including an accreditation or otherwise regulatory agency. VI. General Procedures for Investigations 1. IACERM will acknowledge receipt of any reported issue within three (3) business days. 2. Concerns received by IACERM but not via one of the helplines will be logged manually into the helpline log by IACERM, including the nature of the concern, all relevant dates, and known parties involved. 3. IACERM will establish a preliminary plan to conduct the investigation and involve other parties as necessary to appropriately and thoroughly address all concerns based on the seriousness and potential impact of the report. For example, IACERM may conduct interviews and request documentation (including emails, memos, etc.). 4. IACERM will document the investigation and process in the helpline log, for example: • methods used for analysis • summary or notes from any interviews, conversations, etc. • description and/or reference to any documents collected or reviewed during the investigation • any findings or conclusions • recommendations for corrective or remedial actions (e.g., new compliance controls, broadcast notification reminders, re training, and disciplinary action) • reference to notifications or reports (e.g., federal or state authorities or internal reports) • any other information gathered relevant to the investigation and outcome 5. Upon discovery of any fraud, waste, abuse, or other similar illegal activity, IACERM will engage the necessary parties to stop further illegal action from taking place. IACERM will assist the involved parties in taking appropriate corrective action to mitigate inappropriate past activity. Page 6 of 7 6. All relevant documentation will be retained in the helpline number associated folder on IACERM’s network drive. Access to this drive is limited to designated IACERM staff in order to protect confidentiality associated with the reported compliance concern. 7. The Compliance Officer will provide the Committee with reports concerning the implementation of and compliance with this Policy when requested or as necessary, but at least annually. In addition, IACERM will report and refer any criminal activity to the appropriate legal authorities as necessary or required by law. VII. Policy Enforcement A. The Compliance Officer, in conjunction with IACERM, is responsible for administering and distributing this Policy to all members of the NYU Langone Health community. A copy of this Policy is available on the NYU Langone Health website: http://nyulangone.org/policies disclaimers/general compliance. B. The Committee has oversight of the adoption and implementation of, and compliance with, this Policy. The Committee is responsible for periodically reviewing and adopting any revisions to this Policy. As necessary, the Committee will report to the NYU Audit and Compliance Committee any issues arising under this Policy that rise to a material level. C. Individuals who are found to be noncompliant with applicable federal, state, and local laws and regulations, professional standards, or the Institutional Policies, including any violation of this Policy, may be subject to disciplinary action up to and including termination of employment or association with NYU Langone Health in accordance with NYU Langone Health disciplinary policies and procedures applicable to the individual in question. Having knowledge of inappropriate conduct and choosing not to report is, in itself, a violation of this Policy. VIII. Administration All documentation related to reported compliance concerns, including investigation related notes, and any documentation related to corrective action or training will be maintained in accordance with applicable law and NYU Langone Health’s Record Retention Policy. IX. Related Policies and Documents Breach Notification By laws of the Medical Staff Code of Conduct Complaints, No Retaliation, No Waiver of Rights Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process Guide Corporate Compliance Program Faculty Handbook GME House Staff Manual Human Resources Policies and Procedures: Policy 1.1 Code of Conduct Policy Notice to Employees Concerning Rights and Remedies Under the Pilot Program for Enhancement of Employee Whistleblower Protection (41 U.S.C. 4712) Page 7 of 7 Postdoctoral Handbook Preventing and Reporting Suspicions of Fraud, Waste, and Abuse Residency Training Program Contract Responding to Government Investigations and Law Enforcement Requests Staff Handbook Student Handbook X. Legal Authority/References Federal Deficit Reduction Act, 42 U.S.C. § 1396a(a)(68) Federal False Claims Act 31 U.S.C. § 3729 3731 New York State Department of Health Office of Medicaid Inspector General Compliance Program Guidance for General Hospitals, N.Y. Soc. Serv. Law § 363 d(1), (2) and (4); 18 N.Y.C.R.R. § 521.1(a) and § 521.3(a) New York State False Claims Act, State Finance Law, §187 194 New York State Nonprofit Revitalization Act of 2013, Non For Profit Corporation Law, §715 b OIG Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 63 Federal Register 8987, February 23, 1998, Federal Sentencing Guidelines OIG Supplemental Compliance Program Guidance for Hospitals, 70 Federal Register 4858, January 31, 2005 Pilot Program for Enhancement of Contractor Protection from Reprisal for Disclosure of Certain Information, 41 U.S.C. § 4712 IV. Version History December 1, 2014 Original Policy September 26, 2016 Reviewed and Revised September 12, 2018 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2019 Reviewed and Revised August 1, 2022 Reviewed and Revised This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Sent via email from RED+F Vendor Notice on 02/17/2022 As a healthcare organization that prioritizes quality and safety and to assure the health of our patients, staff, contractor personnel and visitors, NYU Langone Health (NYULH) has instituted the following requirements to help stop the spread of COVID 19. They are applicable to all RED+F contractors, service providers, vendors, and consultants (collectively “Contractors/Vendors”) and their subcontractors, sub consultants, and personnel (collectively “personnel”) that do not function as extensions of staff. We have separately identified contractors that function as extensions of staff. COVID Vaccinations All Contractors/Vendors and their personnel who provide services in or on any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates are required to receive a Covid 19 booster by March 21st. There are no exemptions allowed for any personnel working in or on any NYULH facilities. Contractors/Vendors are required to maintain records that provide proof that all personnel who provide services in any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates have been fully vaccinated and boosted. Upon request, Contractors/Vendors will provide those records to their NYULH Project/Operations/Facilities/or other Manager or Tenant Coordinator (collectively, the “Manager”). All Contractor/Vendor personnel must carry proof of vaccination status and may be asked to show proof of vaccination status at any time in or on NYULH facilities. Proof may be either hard copy or electronic. Contractors/Vendors remain responsible for meeting project schedules and deliverables regardless of the vaccination status of their personnel. Positive COVID 19 Test Reporting All Contractors/Vendors must immediately report any worker who tests positive for COVID 19 and has been in or on NYULH facilities in the last 48 hours. The report must include the name of the worker and note the location(s) where the worker has been while on site. The Contractor/Vendor must make the report via email to their NYULH Manager. The Contractor/Vendor will also provide written notice to all of their personnel as well as other Contractors/Vendors whose personnel were likely to have had a workplace exposure, which is defined as having been within 6 feet of an infected person (i.e., any positive COVID 19 test, notification of exposure by a public health authority or household member with a confirmed COVID diagnosis or positive test ) not wearing a mask for at least 10 minutes any time during the period starting from 48 hours before symptom onset or positive diagnosis until the time the infected person was isolated. Covid Isolation/Quarantine and PPE Requirements Please see the attached 1 14 22 email and 1 6 22 memo which sets forth the current NYULH Covid 19 Isolation/Quarantine and personal protective equipment requirements. Entrance Screening Contractors/Vendors who wish to access NYULH facilities which have a controlled entrance will be subject to temperature check and symptom assessment. If the individual does not accept the screening protocols, or does not pass the screening tests he/she will not be admitted. For admission to NYULH facilities which do not have a controlled entrance, please coordinate with the NYULH Manager who requested the service prior to arrival for communication of your obligations with respect to our screening requirements. Compliance with Other Applicable Requirements Contractors/Vendors are required to comply with all other applicable federal, state, local, and NYULH requirements related to masking, social distancing, and other measures designed to control the spread of COVID 19. Thank you for your cooperation. Paul Schwabacher Senior Vice President, Facilities Management Real Estate Development + Facilities NYU Langone Health


May 2023 1 New York State Department of Health Health Equity Impact Assessment Template SECTION A. SUMMARY 1. Title of project Pediatric Congenital Heart Center move to 577 First Avenue 2. Name of Applicant NYU Langone Health 3. Name of Independent Entity, including lead contact and full names of individual(s) conducting the HEIA Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC Lead Contact: Deborah Zahn, deb@debzahn.com, 347 834 5083 Team Members Conducting the HEIA: • Deborah Zahn, MPH • Lynnette Mawhinney, PhD, MEd • Andrea Mantsios, PhD, MHS • Jenné Massie, DrPH, MS • Melissa Corrado, MBA • Sydne Ashford 4. Description of the Independent Entity’s qualifications The Independent Entity and team members conducting the HEIA have decades of experience in health equity, stakeholder and community engagement, public health, and healthcare. Deborah Zahn, the lead contact, has nearly 30 years of healthcare program and policy experience and stakeholder and community engagement. She has led and facilitated local, regional, and statewide stakeholder and community engagement strategies for healthcare providers and new health initiatives; developed and facilitated community and clinical advisory panels; conducted healthcare assessments; and developed and directed initiatives focused on improving access and health outcomes for medically underserved populations. Lynnette Mawhinney is a health equity and qualitative research expert with 20 years of experience in education. She completed a multi year participatory evaluation of an equity audit tool that spanned three states. She is a professor and Chair of the Department of Urban Education at Rutgers University Newark. Andrea Mantsios is a public health expert with 20 years of experience in public health and healthcare. She specializes in qualitative methods to promote health equity in research, policy, and programming. She completed a health equity needs assessment for a large scale health insurance provider to inform development of an organizational health May 2023 2 equity. Jenné Massie is the Deputy Director of the Intersectionality Research Institute and a Faculty Senior Research Associate and Project Director for the MOCHA Lab at John Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She also serves as a Commissioner of the DC Department of Health Regional Planning Commission on Health and HIV and the Chair of the Community Engagement and Education Committee. Melissa Corrado has more than 20 years of experience helping healthcare and community based entities develop and conduct assessments and implement plans. She has designed and conducted stakeholder interviews to guide planning of community initiatives and for community based healthcare and social service providers. Sydne Ashford is a Consulting Associate in CohnReznick’s Healthcare Industry Practice. She serves ambulatory care facilities, such as Federally Qualified Health Centers, hospitals, and mental health focused organizations, and specializes in Medicaid rate setting and cost reporting, financial and regulatory reporting, financial feasibility studies, and financial and operational performance. She also supports program development and strategic business planning efforts. 5. Date the Health Equity Impact Assessment (HEIA) started 04/17/2024 6. Date the HEIA concluded 06/18/2024 7. Executive summary of project (250 words max) The proposed project involves relocating all existing services of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to 577 First Ave, New York, NY, which is directly across the street of its current location. The current location is on the 7th floor of the main hospital. The new location will have the same services and be on the ground floor. 8. Executive summary of HEIA findings (500 words max) May 2023 3 All patients and caregivers were in support of the move. They said moving the Center from a 7th floor location to a ground level space will reduce physical barriers and ease access to services. One of the groups most impacted by the proposed relocation are congenital heart patients and caregivers experiencing limited mobility, including those using wheelchairs, walkers, and strollers. Also impacted will be immunocompromised patients and/or patients awaiting surgeries. They will no longer be put at risk of possible infection or delays in surgeries if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by other patients needing to reach other floors. One stakeholder was concerned about how transfers to emergency services will be managed and related staffing. Other stakeholders wanted to ensure that appointment reminders communicate the new location to patients and caregivers and the availability of access to resources or supplies patients need during the visit. All these concerns are addressed in the monitoring and mitigation plan. SECTION B: ASSESSMENT For all questions in Section B, please include sources, data, and information referenced whenever possible. If the Independent Entity determines a question is not applicable to the project, write N/A and provide justification. STEP 1 SCOPING 1. Demographics of service area: Complete the “Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2” in the document “HEIA Data Tables”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance about what each Scoping Table Sheet requires. See Scoping Table Sheets 1 and 2 in the “Pediatric Congenital Heart Center HEIA Scoping Sheets” document. 2. Medically underserved groups in the service area: Please select the medically underserved groups in the service area that will be impacted by the project: ❑ Low income people ❑ Racial and ethnic minorities ❑ Immigrants ❑ Women ❑ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or other than cisgender people ❑ People with disabilities ❑ Older adults ❑ Persons living with a prevalent infectious disease or condition ❑ Persons living in rural areas ❑ People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits ❑ People who do not have third party health coverage or have inadequate third party health coverage ❑ Other people who are unable to obtain health care May 2023 4 ❑ Not listed (specify): 3. For each medically underserved group (identified above), what source of information was used to determine the group would be impacted? What information or data was difficult to access or compile for the completion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? We leveraged the Applicant’s internal data and the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center’s direct knowledge of the patient population to identify the medically underserved groups that would be impacted by the project. While robust internal data is collected, it did not reflect immigration or disability status. For this information, we consulted publicly available data related to these groups in the broader service area. • Low income people internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Racial and ethnic minorities internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • Immigrants American Community Survey, 2022 • Women internal electronic medical record data, American Community Survey, 2022 • People with disabilities American Community Survey, 2022 • People who are eligible for or receive public health benefits American Community Survey, 2022 Overall, a combination of internal and external data sources was used to identify the medically underserved groups impacted by the proposed project. 4. How does the project impact the unique health needs or quality of life of each medically underserved group (identified above)? The proposed project involves relocating the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a building directly across the street, where it will occupy a space on the ground level at 577 First Ave, New York, NY. This move will enhance the patient experience for patients and their caregivers in several ways. Moving the Center to a ground level space will reduce physical barriers and simplify the journey to care, which is often a stressful experience for patients and their caregivers. Based on stakeholder input, the groups most affected by the proposed move of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to the first floor location across the street are Congenital Heart Center patients and their caregivers who experience limited mobility as well as immunocompromised patients. Patients using wheelchairs, stretchers, medical equipment, etc. will have easier access to services since they will not have to navigate elevators and other barriers as they now must to access the current 7th floor location. May 2023 5 Immunocompromised patients and/or patients awaiting surgeries will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by patients needing to reach other floors. This is critical leading up to a child’s surgery because children need to be free of infection. If they are exposed to pathogens, their procedures dates may be pushed back. When the Independent Entity assessed the impact on patients, we also noted who comprises the patient population. As indicated in the response to question 5, almost half of patients are on Medicaid as their primary source of payment, and as Medicaid serves as a proxy for low incomes, low income people and people who are receive public health benefits will also be impacted by this move. Additionally, since over a third of patients identified as racial and/or ethnic minorities and as women, racial and ethnic minorities and women will also be impacted by the greater ease of access and reduced pathogen threat. The stakeholder engagement did not reveal any specific impacts for these medically underserved groups. Although we were unable to obtain input from them during the stakeholder engagement, the relocation may also have a positive impact on immigrants, especially those who might find large hospital buildings challenging to navigate due to language barriers or unfamiliarity with complex healthcare settings. 5. To what extent do the medically underserved groups (identified above) currently use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? To what extent are the medically underserved groups (identified above) expected to use the service(s) or care impacted by or as a result of the project? Of the patients seen by NYULH’s Pediatric Congenital Heart Center within the service area in Fiscal Year 2023, relied on Medicaid as their primary source of payment (with Medicaid as primary source of payment serving as a proxy for low income population), identified as racial or ethnic minorities, and identified as women. Although the Applicant expects that improvements to patient satisfaction and a more accessible facility will attract new patients to NYULH, the Applicant anticipates that the service utilization proportion among all medically underserved groups will remain constant following the relocation of Center. As noted above, internal data limitations include a lack of robust data related to immigrants and disabled populations. Therefore, the Independent Entity is unable to quantify current or expected utilization specific to these groups. 6. What is the availability of similar services or care at other facilities in or near the Applicant's service area? Within the service area, congenital heart centers/clinics (both pediatric and adult) are located (Source: respective hospitals’ websites): Hospital Location May 2023 6 The NewYork Presbyterian Congenital Heart Center at NewYork Presbyterian Morgan Stanley Children’s Hospital and NewYork Presbyterian Komansky Children’s Hospital’s Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens Mount Sinai Children's Heart Center Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx Mount Sinai Adult Congenital Heart Disease Center Manhattan, Long Island Cohen Children’s Northwell Health Queens Northwell Health Adult Congenital Heart Program Manhattan, Long Island The Children’s Hospital at Montefiore Adult Congenital Heart Disease (includes Pediatrics) Bronx Cornell Center for Adult Congenital Heart Disease Manhattan 7. What are the historical and projected market shares of providers offering similar services or care in the Applicant's service area? According to volume data from SPARCS, in 2022, the Applicant’s Manhattan location held a market share in the service area, up from in 2021. For the purposes of this project, market share is defined as the pool of pediatric patients with cardiovascular surgery/cardiovascular disease within the project service area, which is defined as Kings, New York, and Queens counties. As Tables 1 and 2 demonstrate, between 2021 and 2022, pediatric cardiovascular disease patient volume increased by 0. in New York State and decreased by 2. in the service area. Facilities serving patients in the service area observed varied trends in patient volumes from CY21 to CY22, with some experiencing increases while others saw declines. NYU Langone Health increased patient volume by 8. in the service area during this period. It is difficult to project future market share because there are no publicly available data for clinic visits for which the Applicant can use as a baseline for market share assumptions. Additionally, market share assumptions are difficult to ascertain because a hospital’s market position in any given service line also will depend largely on the activities of other hospitals (e.g., strategic service line expansions/closures), which generally cannot be predicted. May 2023 7 Table 1: Volume and Percent Change in Pediatric Cardiovascular Disease Patients by NY State Area and Facility (2022 2023) Hospital SystemFacility Name2021 Volume 2022 Volume % DifferenceBronxCareBronx Lebanon Hospital Center Concourse Div108 20.Good Samaritan Hospital Medical Center91122.St. Charles Hospital & Rehab Center110.St. Francis Hospital The Heart Center3433.Bellevue Hospital Center81137.Elmhurst Hospital Center107 30.Harlem Hospital Center550.Jacobi Medical Center97 22.Kings County Hospital Center98 11.Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center65 16.Metropolitan Hospital Center3Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center1MaimonidesMaimonides Medical Center3332 3.Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center3Flushing Hospital Medical Center220.Jamaica Hospital Medical Center5Montefiore Hutchinson Campus21 50.Montefiore Medical Center Moses Division13590 33.White Plains Hospital Center31 66.Mount Sinai Hospital10511610.Mount Sinai Morningside2Mount Sinai West1Richmond University Medical Center81137.South Nassau Communities Hospital24100.David H. Koch Center For Cancer Care1Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center163 81.Cohen Children's Medical Center176163 7.Forest Hills Hospital121958.Lenox Hill Hospital54 20.Long Island Jew ish Medical Center12100.Manhattan Eye, Ear, & Throat Hospital21 50.Nassau University Medical Center26200.North Shore University Hospital83 62.Northern Westchester Hospital1Northw ell Health Center for Advanced Medicine1Plainview Hospital24100.South Shore Amb Surg Center1Staten Island University Hospital1412 14.NYP Brooklyn Methodist Hospital121633.NYP Columbia2232449.NYP Cornell8882 6.NYP Law rence Hospital1NYP Low er Manhattan Hospital3NYP Queens319533.Long Island Community Hospital3NYU Brooklyn65 16.NYU Langone Medical Center10812414.NYU Long Island142792.NYU Long Island ASC1Ambulatory Surgery Center of Westchester1Blythedale Childrens Hospital2East Hills Surgery Center, LLC1Long Island Surgicenter Inc.1New York Center For Ambulatory Surgery1The Brooklyn Hospital Center2350.Wyckoff Heights Medical Center31 66.Stony BrookStony Brook University Hospital1633106.SUNYSUNY Dow nstate Medical Center990.WMC HealthWestchester Medical Center10483 20.1,2011,2050.MSKCCCHSHHCMedisys HealthMontefioreMount SinaiNorthw ellNYPNYUOtherGrand Total May 2023 8 Table 2: Volume and Percent Change in Pediatric Cardiovascular Disease Patients in the Service Area by Facility (2022 2023) 8. Summarize the performance of the Applicant in meeting its obligations, if any, under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations requiring the provision of uncompensated care, community services, and/or access by minorities and people with disabilities to programs receiving federal financial assistance. Will these obligations be affected by implementation of the project? If yes, please describe. The obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations apply to NYULH, and the organization is currently meeting its obligations to the best of the Independent Entity’s knowledge. As a non profit Hospital SystemFacility Name2021 Volume 2022 Volume % DifferenceBellevue Hospital Center6.09.050.Elmhurst Hospital Center9.07.0 22.Harlem Hospital Center4.02.0 50.Kings County Hospital Center9.08.0 11.Metropolitan Hospital Center1.0Woodhull Medical and Mental Health Center1.0MaimonidesMaimonides Medical Center31.029.0 6.Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center3.0Flushing Hospital Medical Center2.02.00.Jamaica Hospital Medical Center5.0MontefioreMontefiore Medical Center Moses Division10.06.0 40.Mount Sinai Hospital56.055.0 1.Mount Sinai Morningside1.0Richmond University Medical Center1.0MSKCCMemorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center6.02.0 66.Cohen Children's Medical Center66.069.04.Forest Hills Hospital12.017.041.Lenox Hill Hospital4.02.0 50.Manhattan Eye, Ear, & Throat Hospital2.0Nassau University Medical Center1.0North Shore University Hospital3.0Plainview Hospital2.0Staten Island University Hospital2.0NYP Brooklyn Methodist Hospital12.015.025.NYP Columbia71.058.0 18.NYP Cornell65.056.0 13.NYP Low er Manhattan Hospital3.0NYP Queens2.018.0800.NYU Brooklyn5.05.00.NYU Langone Medical Center67.073.08.New York Center For Ambulatory Surgery1.0The Brooklyn Hospital Center2.03.050.Wyckoff Heights Medical Center3.01.0 66.SUNYSUNY Dow nstate Medical Center6.06.00.WMC HealthWestchester Medical Center1.01.00.465.0454.0 2.OtherGrand TotalHHCMedisys HealthMount SinaiNorthw ellNYPNYU May 2023 9 healthcare system, the Applicant’s stated mission above all is to provide the highest quality healthcare that patients deserve. The Applicant provides care regardless of a patient’s ability to pay and has a financial assistance policy available to patients who are in need. In addition, the Applicant offers charity care, which covered approximately $93 million in care in FY23. (In the same time period, there was another $1.3 billion gap between the cost of care for patients who are covered by government insurance programs and the reimbursement the Applicant received for that care in FY23.) The Applicant’s Charity Care and Financial Assistance policy can be found online (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf). The Applicant’s obligations under Public Health Law § 2807 k (General Hospital Indigent Care Pool) and federal regulations will not be affected by the implementation of this project. Description of the number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in this facility compared to the total number of Medicaid or uninsured discharges/people served/residents in the region. The Applicant is projecting that of visits at the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center will be for Medicaid patients in year one. (Total payor mix includes Medicare, Commercial, Medicaid, and other.) According to US Census data, at the New York state level, the payer mix in 2022 was 42. public health insurance coverage (19. Medicare alone or in combination and 28. Medicaid alone or in combination), 65. private health insurance coverage, and 4. uninsured. Description of how this compares to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents for this facility compared to the total number of licensed medical surgical beds/people served/residents in the region. N/A. The project does not involve inpatient beds. 9. Are there any physician and professional staffing issues related to the project or any anticipated staffing issues that might result from implementation of project? If yes, please describe. Since there will be no changes to the services offered as a result of the project, the Applicant expects no negative impacts. That said, the Applicant will need to increase staff as patient volume increases. (They currently expect a increase in patient volume year over year.) The Applicant indicates that they will have a comprehensive recruitment plan in place well before the opening of the relocated Center. Their planning process includes evaluating patient volume trends and a care model that supports both inpatient and outpatient services. They regularly assess staffing needs based on patient volume and service demands to ensure they have the right number and type of staff. Additionally, they indicated that they engage in recruitment and retention initiatives, such as offering competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment, to attract and retain talent. This approach is in keeping with best practices in the healthcare field. May 2023 10As noted in the Meaningful Engagement sections, some stakeholders did say they were concerned about whether there would be adequate staffing and, for one staff stakeholder, if the move would require providers and staff to go back and forth between the new location and services across the street. The Applicant indicated they regularly assess staffing needs based on patient volume, service demands, and staff experience to ensure they have the right number and type of staff. Also, while there may be some necessary travel between locations to ensure continuity of staff for patients, that will be through planned and coordinated visits that focus on organized transitions of care, rather than urgent, unplanned movements. This approach is similar to that of other hospitals operating through multiple locations in an urban environment. 10. Are there any civil rights access complaints against the Applicant? If yes, please describe. Following is a summary of civil rights access complaints against the Applicant, including a summary of the complaint and the current status of the complaint. Note that these are not specific to Pediatric Congenital Heart Center. • 6 total complaints filed with the NYC Commission on Human Rights o 1 race discrimination complaint was investigated and dismissed o 1 race discrimination complaint was closed for administrative cause o 1 gender discrimination complaint is in settlement discussions o 3 are pending open investigation: ▪ 1 related to disability access ▪ 2 related to gender discrimination • 11 total complaints filed with the New York State Division of Human Rights o 9 have been dismissed ▪ 5 related to disability discrimination ▪ 1 related to national origin discrimination ▪ 2 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color ▪ 1 related to discrimination of national origin, race, color, and marital status o 1 national origin discrimination complaint is pending an open investigation o 1 related to discrimination on the basis of disability, military status, national origin, domestic violence victim status, relationship or association, and opposed discrimination/retaliation is pending an open investigation 11. Has the Applicant undertaken similar projects/work in the last five years? If yes, describe the outcomes and how medically underserved group(s) were impacted as a result of the project. Explain why the applicant requires another investment in a similar project after recent investments in the past. The applicant has submitted CON 191204 HCH 7 Congenital Heart Program. This was submitted as a Limited Review CON application for relocating the Congenital Cardiac Ambulatory Care Program from the Fink Ambulatory Center located at 150 East 32nd May 2023 11Street to the 7th floor of the Kimmel Pavilion. The applicant received DOH approval for this project on 10/11/2019. In addition, the Applicant received Regional Office approval to occupy as of 10/22/21. Prior to the current location of the Center, the service was located at a site 3 blocks away. As a result of this project, the Applicant was able to expand access to congenital heart services to meet growing patient need. The project enabled the Applicant to see ambulatory patients for physician visits, diagnostic testing, pre and post surgical procedure visits, and education in a single location. The project facilitated patients’ access to necessary services, reduced the need to navigate multiple clinical areas, improved scheduling multiple appointments and coordinating continuity of care. Based on the project description, we assume it positively improved patient experience for all medically underserved groups, most likely people with disabilities who could more easily access services in a single location; immigrants who no longer had to navigate multiple locations and arrange for transportation and interpreter services; and low income people who no longer had to miss work and accrue additional expenses due to having to come to multiple visits. The Applicant is moving Congenial Heart services again to accommodate a Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) expansion. STEP 2 POTENTIAL IMPACTS 1. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe how the project will: a. Improve access to services and health care b. Improve health equity c. Reduce health disparities The relocation of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a ground level space at 577 First Ave, New York, NY will increase access to healthcare services for all patients, including medically underserved groups. The move increase access to services by eliminating the need for patients and their caregivers to navigate through multiple levels, offering immediate access from street level. This will be beneficial for people with mobility issues who will no longer have to travel to the 7th floor and/or immunocompromised patients who will not have to risk exposure to pathogens riding in in elevators with other people. It will also be easier for people who find it difficult to navigate complex hospital layouts, such as immigrants and people with limited English proficiency. By removing physical and logistical barriers, the project will help ensure that all patients have equal opportunities to access care, supporting a more equitable healthcare environment. As the services and resources provided will remain the same, the Applicant expects no changes in health disparities. However, as the project is implemented, the Applicant will May 2023 12monitor outcomes, including assessing any health disparities that may arise and must be addressed. 2. For each medically underserved group identified in Step 1 Question 2, describe any unintended positive and/or negative impacts to health equity that might occur as a result of the project. Unintended Positive Impacts The relocation of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to a ground level facility across the street will enhance physical accessibility, which is a positive impact for health equity. Immediate street level access will aid: • People with disabilities, who will benefit from not having to navigate multiple floors, thereby reducing physical strain and simplifying their access to care. • Patients who are immunocompromised and/or awaiting surgeries who will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by other patients needing to reach other floors. • Immigrants, who might otherwise find large hospital buildings daunting due to language barriers or unfamiliarity with complex healthcare settings, can now access the Center more directly. Unintended Negative Impact One stakeholder was concerned that being outside of the main hospital would delay or limit access to emergency services for patients who are identified as needing life saving support when at the Center. The Independent Entity verified that the Applicant has a standard process that they have regularly used to transfer patients between locations for emergencies to the hospital. It includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. In the past 12 months at the Center, there have been zero cardiac arrests or code resuscitations. Because some transfers are billed services, the Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are unable to pay. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) Other stakeholders expressed concerns about obtaining supplies needed to support families with infants (e.g., breast pump, formula, diapers) during lengthy visits at the Center, which are currently accessible from other departments within the hospital; however, the Independent Entity verified that these resources and supplies, as with all currently available resources and supplies, will be available at the new location. 3. How will the amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, change (if at all) if the project is implemented? Include the current amount of indigent care, both free and below cost, provided by the Applicant. May 2023 13Upon evaluation of the Applicant’s projected budget and operational forecasts, it is anticipated that the amount of indigent care currently provided by the Applicant will increase proportionally with the growth factor of volume of . The Center’s relocation and subsequent operational adjustments are designed to maintain existing service levels. Therefore, we do not foresee any change in the provision of indigent care due to this project. The Applicant covered approximately $93 million in charity care in FY23. 4. Describe the access by public or private transportation, including Applicant sponsored transportation services, to the Applicant’s service(s) or care if the project is implemented. The access by public and private transportation is expected to remain unchanged by the proposed project. As the project will move Center locations to across the street (less than ~600 feet away), it is anticipated that patients will use the same public transportation options to get to their appointments. Some patients may take public transportation such as subway, bus, and ferry, and some use Access A Ride Paratransit Services, provided by the MTA. For those taking the subway, the closest MTA Subway station will remain the 6 train at 33rd Street. The M34 and M34A Select Bus Service stops at 34th Street and 1st Avenue, in close proximity to both the current Center sites and the hospital campus. The buses also make a stop at the East 34th Street Pier, which can accommodate travelers from the New York City ferry. 5. Describe the extent to which implementation of the project will reduce architectural barriers for people with mobility impairments. There are no architectural barriers in the current facility, as Kimmel Pavilion, inclusive of the 7th floor, was built under the 2008 NYC Building Code including Chapter 11 Accessibility, and as such is compliant with the ICC A117.1 (Accessible and Usable Buildings and Facilities.) ANSI A117.1 is consistent with both ADA regulations and U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Fair Housing Accessibility Guidelines, and, as a publication by the International Code Council (ICC), it is compatible with the International Building Code. The relocation is not related to mitigating any existing barriers. The new space at 577 1st Ave will also be built per all current ADA regulations. 6. Describe how implementation of the project will impact the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services, as that term is used in Public Health Law § 2599 aa, including contraception, sterility procedures, and abortion. How will the project impact the availability and provision of reproductive and maternal health care services in the service area? How will the Applicant mitigate any potential disruptions in service availability? May 2023 14N/A. The project has no impact on the facility’s delivery of maternal health care services and comprehensive reproductive health care services. Meaningful Engagement 7. List the local health department(s) located within the service area that will be impacted by the project. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (NYC DOHMH) 8. Did the local health department(s) provide information for, or partner with, the Independent Entity for the HEIA of this project? We reached out to our contacts at NYC DOHMH who spoke with us for the previous HEIA we conducted and were informed of their new protocol for requesting an interview for an HEIA. We submitted their online intake form for the current HEIA providing them with the following information: • CON applicant name, operating certificate number, applicant type, and type of project indicating this is a change in location of services with the Congenital Heart Center being relocated • Zip codes served by the facility; no change to zip codes served as a result of this project • List of medically underserved groups that will be impacted • Description of the project However, they no longer will consider being interviewed without also receiving the bulk of the completed HEIA. We declined to provide the additional materials since they are not the entity to whom we are required to submit the HEIA, and there is no guarantee that they will agree to be interviewed. 9. Meaningful engagement of stakeholders: Complete the “Meaningful Engagement” table in the document titled “HEIA Data Table”. Refer to the Instructions for more guidance. See Meaningful Engagement table in HEIA Data Table attached. 10. Based on your findings and expertise, which stakeholders are most affected by the project? Has any group(s) representing these stakeholders expressed concern the project or offered relevant input? Based on stakeholder input, the groups most affected by the proposed move of the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center to the first floor location across the street are May 2023 15congenital heart patients experiencing limited mobility, immunocompromised patients, or patients awaiting surgeries. Patients using wheelchairs, stretchers, medical equipment, etc. will have easier access to services since they don’t have to navigate elevators and other barriers to getting to the current 7th floor location. Immunocompromised patients or patients awaiting surgeries who will no longer be put at risk of possible infection if exposed to pathogens in hospital elevators by patients needing to reach other floors. Stakeholders expressed four main concerns about the move. The first was that the new location being outside of the main hospital would delay access to emergency services for patients who are identified as needing life saving support when at the Center. The next concern was ensuring supplies needed to support families with infants (e.g., breast pump, formula, diapers) during lengthy visits at the Center are still available, which are currently accessible from other departments within the hospital. Both staff and patients were also eager to know if there would be sufficient medical and support staff (both their clinical care team and social workers/child life specialists) to accommodate the new location. Additionally, one patient had a security concern about the move to a first floor location and if that would make visitors to the Center vulnerable to individuals not associated with the hospital walking in more easily off the street. These concerns are described in greater detail with supporting quotes in Question 11. 11. How has the Independent Entity’s engagement of community members informed the Health Equity Impact Assessment about who will benefit as well as who will be burdened from the project? As part of our meaningful engagement of stakeholders, we: • Conducted stakeholder interviews • Conducted a survey • Reached out to local community based organizations We contacted 13 patients and caregivers for interviews. Of those, four agreed to be interviewed and completed the interviews. Of the four patients and caregivers we interviewed, three are members of racial and/or ethnic minorities. We also interviewed one social worker who works with patients and caregivers served by the Center. Given the difficulties securing interviews, we also developed and released an online survey, available in English and Spanish. We posted flyers in English and Spanish with a QR code directing patients to the survey in the waiting area of the Center. The survey was live for 17 days. Three patients completed it. We also reached out to two local community based organizations to elicit their thoughts on the move; however, we did not get a response from either group after multiple attempts to reach them. May 2023 16From those stakeholders we engaged, we heard that the proposed move of the Center to have both positive and negative impacts on patients and their caregivers. When asked about the move, survey respondents (N=3) reported that they “liked it a lot” or “liked it a bit.” None of the survey respondents reported concerns about the move. Our stakeholder interviews revealed specific ways the move could benefit or introduce burden to the patient experience and care received. All patients were in support of the move. Caregivers recognized the benefit of a first floor location with the proposed move in terms of ease and convenience and also for eliminating exposure to pathogens in elevators. Caregivers described that it can be stressful leading up to a child’s surgery when they need to be free of infection to have to take elevators where they may be exposed to pathogens that would risk having the procedure date pushed back. “I love the first floor because it’s like you could get easy in and out. You don’t have to go through security or all of the nicks and crannies...I mean especially for younger moms who have strollers or other things. And during this COVID or post COVID era where people are coughing in elevators and different people around, and you’re trying to make sure they’re [the patient] not getting sick before your next surgery. And, you’re like, have to protect you because you don’t want them to get sick. Then they postpone it [the surgery] another couple of months.” (Caregiver of patient) The concept of ease of access was reinforced by survey participants. Two of the 3 respondents reported that a benefit of the proposed move is that “It would be faster to get to the Center when I arrive to NYU Langone.” The remaining respondent reported that “It would be easier for me to find the Center when I arrive to NYU Langone” as a benefit to the move. With regards to accessibility, caregivers noted that moving to a first floor location would improve access for patients and/or caregivers in wheelchairs, stretchers, walkers as well as parents with small children using strollers. The importance of accessibility was also reinforced by two caregivers: “I think most would appreciate it [being on the first floor]. I think for transportation, we’re talking about transportation of patients coming into the facility so many different ways: wheelchairs, stretchers. So I think being on the first floor, that’s probably another piece of it that’s actually more beneficial.” (Caregiver of two patients). “You have to take into consideration parents coming with strollers or some patients in wheelchairs. So I think the accessibility of it [Center] being on the first floor, it’s going to be much, much better.” (Patient). May 2023 17One patient did mention a concern around security. Since the new location will be on the first floor, she questioned if this could pose a security risk for the patients. “With it being directly on the first floor, I'm not sure if there will be security present. But just anyone being able to just walk in... I know for the Congenital Heart Center, a lot of times for patients, they do need to undress and get gowned up because of EKGs that may need to be performed. So just ensuring that there's security or someone around to protect the patients and the staff that are there so that no one in that area can just walk in because it is located directly across the street from the hospital. Unfortunately, a lot of homeless people hang around, like the emergency room departments, and they just kind of wander around. So just preventing possibly something like that happening.” (Caregiver) The social worker we interviewed raised the importance of ensuring the new space is accessible for all the transport and equipment needs of their most medically complex patients, which can often require a good deal of space and wide doors to accommodate. “One concern I have is ensuring everything is accessible we have many patients on stretchers who need to be moved within clinic. For very complex, we try to bring everything to them but most we have to move around so make sure doors are wide enough for stretchers and wheelchairs etc.” (Congenital Heart Center Social worker) The Applicant indicated that the space will meet all ADA regulations. The social worker was concerned about no longer being located within the main hospital building given that it is not uncommon for a patient to need emergency services during a visit to the Center. While the current location within the main hospital allows them to send patients directly to the emergency department, pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), or inpatient admissions, the proposed new location will require medical staff to call an ambulance to move the patient across the street, which has implications for both delays in the delivery of life saving care to patients and for cost to commercially insured families who will receive a bill for the ambulance needed to transport their child across the street. The social worker explained: “I do worry just about the logistics of being across the street and no longer located within the hospital and what that will mean and how quickly we’ll be able to mobilize patients, too. Because I feel like our congenital patients, when they decompensate, they usually decompensate pretty quickly…if we’re waiting for an ambulance, you don’t know what that timing looks like. And right now, we can call a code on this unit and people will come running from everywhere.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) Highlighting the concern around cost that families may incur due to needing an ambulance in these types of circumstances, the social worker described: “We are located in the hospital currently because we were admitting directly to the hospital from the clinic so to streamline it, they nested us in here. In moving May 2023 18across the street, for admitting to the hospital, we’ll now have to call an ambulance to transport them across the street and the family will be billed for that. The Medicaid population, OK but for commercial insurance, it could be a $500 bill they will receive. With financial stressors the families already face, this is another expense.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) In response to this concern, the Independent Entity reviewed the transfer process with the Applicant. As stated, there is a standard process that has been used regularly to manage emergency transfers from multiple locations within the NYULH delivery system. It includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. In the past 12 months at the Center, there have been zero cardiac arrests or code resuscitations. Because some transfers are billed services, the Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are unable to pay. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) Another concern raised by stakeholders was around access to resources or supplies during the visit. Multiple participants discussed that the average length of visit to the Center is two or more hours due to the various testing that occurs during the visit (e.g., EKGs, Echocardiograms, etc.). Moving across the street could limit access to resources like diapers or breast pumps that families with infants and young children often need, as discussed by the social worker: “We’re still technically an outpatient clinic. And even though we’re located within the hospital, we do have access to some resources if we need things like diapers and formula and breast pumps and things like that. But it’s going be more of a challenge, I think, when we do move, though, because we’re not going to have those things so readily available…Sometimes we’re able to get a can of formula from the hospital or a breast pump for a mom to be able to pump if she didn’t bring her stuff with her. So all of those things usually require us leaving this clinic and running up to one of the units to grab them with permission for supervision.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) In response to this concern, the Independent Entity verified that all current supplies and resources will be available at the new location. Lastly, the social worker mentioned a concern with staffing needs keeping up with the expansion. “It’s really also from, you know, the resource allocation. A lot of services are expanding and the staffing is not following suit…So eventually I anticipate I’ll be running back and forth across the street to cover clinic and see patients in the ICU. And there will be many other providers doing the same thing. And so just figuring out what that looks like also, for the wait times, if they have to wait to see us because we’re either traveling back and forth or in the hospital seeing other patients, and then coming back over to the clinic.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) May 2023 19The question of sufficient staffing with the move included concern around availability of language interpreters for the new location across the street. It was noted that there are already few in person interpreters, and the question was raised if their availability would be compromised with the Center’s move to the new location. In response to this concern, the Independent Entity verified that as the Center grows, the Applicant with analyze staffing needs and add staff in response to patient volume and needs. 12. Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. The medically underserved groups we were unable to reach include Medicaid insured individuals and immigrants. As noted above (see question 11), program staff outreached to 13 individuals intending to engage members of medically underserved groups; however, only 4 individuals were available for interviews. STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a. People of limited English speaking ability b. People with speech, hearing or visual impairments c. If the Applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? a. People of Limited English Speaking Ability: The Applicant will ensure that all community members are fully informed about the changes in service and care availability resulting from the project. To effectively communicate with individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant plans to implement a comprehensive language access strategy. This includes translating all relevant informational materials such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage into multiple languages prevalent within the community. Furthermore, signage at the current locations will be displayed in both English and Spanish, clearly announcing the Center’s relocation. Letters detailing the move will be sent out in both languages to current patients. Additionally, the Center staff will actively communicate the details of this move during patient appointments and through telephone calls as patients contact the Center for appointments. b. People with Speech, Hearing, or Visual Impairments: For individuals with speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant has adopted a digital accessibility plan that adheres to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines May 2023 20(WCAG) version 2.2. This ensures that the Applicant's digital communications, including their website and social media platforms, are accessible to users with disabilities. This approach includes providing alternative text for images, captions for videos, and ensuring that all digital content is navigable via keyboard for those who cannot use a mouse. c. If the Applicant Does Not Have Plans to Foster Effective Communication: The Applicant has an effective communication plan. That said, a caregiver and the social worker identified an important issue with the previous move, that is the need to ensure that appointment reminders are updated to include the new location. This will be addressed in this communication plan. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Stakeholders had the following specific suggestions for how the project can better meet their needs as they considered the impact of the move: • Ensure a comprehensive staff recruitment and retention plan is developed and communicated as the Center opens and as it grows. Since this was a significant concern, it will be critical for the Applicant not only to develop and implement an ongoing recruitment and retention plan but to communicate it routinely so that patients, caregivers, and staff see that the Applicant has a believable path for ensuring appropriate staff. • Ensure there is a social worker on site at the new location. There was a heavy focus across interviews on the role of child life specialists and social workers serving the pediatric patients and their families. Patients/caregivers both emphasized their importance as they spoke about their experiences and articulated actual requests to ensure social workers are present at the new location. The staff will stay the same at the new location; however, as patient volume grows, social workers will be critical to include in the among new staff. • Ensure the new location is communicated clearly. Even with the most comprehensive communication plans, which the Applicant has laid out, there may still be confusion about what services they still have to get at the previous location, such as imaging. The Independent Entity encourages the Applicant to review their plan with caregivers and staff to get feedback on any possible issues that may arise. Additionally, a caregiver and the social worker who had gone through the previous move of the Congenital Heart Center described confusion with the last move because the new location was not updated in appointment reminders sent to patients. Both stressed the importance of ensuring this previously missing piece is remedied for this move. May 2023 21• Consider improvements to the new space. Caregivers noted that the toilets at the current location are too high for small children as well as the desire to have a play area for patients, comparable to the one now at the Congenital Heart Center. This will help children and their families make it through what are generally long appointments spanning several hours at the Center. These types of changes will improve patient and caregiver experience. 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The individuals who participated in the interviews as part of the meaningful engagement portion of this assessment would be an excellent group to return to for future inputs in addition to a more diverse group of caregivers. We propose they be contacted 3 6 months after the relocation to speak to the impact of the project and be consulted on any potential improvements. We propose interviews, so the Applicant can get nuanced information about the impact and potential improvements. We also would propose a patient survey across the Center’s patients at the same time interval to capture perspectives about the relocation. 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? Several issues around systemic barriers to equitable access to services and care were identified by stakeholders during our meaningful engagement work for this assessment. From an access perspective, the proposed move to a first floor location would improve the experience of receiving services at the Center for patients with mobility issues. Additionally, the new location would help eliminate risk of exposure to pathogens in elevators improving patients experience receiving care for those who are immunocompromised or who have an upcoming surgery. However, the move would impact access to emergency response for patients experiencing serious or life threatening medical conditions while at the Center. The new location across the street from the main hospital was seen as a barrier that would prohibit care teams from being able to easily admit patients needing elevated care or emergency services in the moment of a medical emergency. A financial burden to families was also identified in this scenario since calling an ambulance to transport the patient from the Center to the hospital across the street would result in patients with commercial insurance receiving a bill for ambulatory transport. It was noted that these families are already facing financial stressors as they navigate their child’s illness and related medical bills, so incurring the additional cost of an ambulance to move their child across the street for emergency care or hospital admission would be yet another financial burden. Mitigation of these barriers is critical for families. To address these barriers, the Applicant ensured there is a standard process that has been used regularly to manage emergency transfers from multiple locations within the NYULH delivery system, which includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. The Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are May 2023 22unable to pay for billed transfers. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the pediatric patients of all services, including congenital heart, and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnicity, gender/gender identity, age, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. The Applicant will leverage this dashboard and data to reveal and address inequities and disparities as it implements the project. NYULH also tracks a variety of measures to ensure health equity is maintained among patients, which will continue to be used after the implementation of this project. Data, such as those submitted to Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS), can be stratified by traditional medically underserved groups (e.g., racial and/or ethnic minorities). Some examples of data submitted to STS include: • Risk adjusted operative mortality • Overall Aggregate Postoperative Mean LOS NYULH also regularly reports on data related to transplant one year survival rate and will also continue to maintain, track, and submit this data in the context of its congenital heart patients (for those who receive a heart transplant). Additionally, children’s services and outcomes are monitored through an existing dashboard, which provides a holistic view of health and healthcare services for children across the NYULH delivery system. Pediatric congenital heart services are part of that dashboard. At least monthly, a children’s safety and quality committee reviews the dashboard and has a standard process for responding to needed improvements. 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant indicated they would consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the state, the Applicant may re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific May 2023 23medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and the State are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant should also consider caregiver and staff interviews and surveys after the project is implemented to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max) This project is important to understand as it relates to another forthcoming project, that is the expansion of PICU services. While this project requires mitigation strategies to address some of the unintended impacts, it does allow for an increase in vital services to meet the increased need for them in the service area. SECTION BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY THE APPLICANT SECTION C. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN Acknowledgment by the Applicant that the Health Equity Impact Assessment was reviewed by the facility leadership before submission to the Department. This section is to be completed by the Applicant, not the Independent Entity. I.AcknowledgementI, Joseph J. Lhota, attest that I have reviewed the Health Equity Impact Assessment for the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center move to 577 First Avenue that has been prepared by the Independent Entity, Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC. JOSEPH J. LHOTA Name EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND VICE DEAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER and CHIEF OF STAFF Title JUNE 24, 2024 Date May 2023 24 May 2023 25II. Mitigation Plan If the project is approved, how has or will the Applicant mitigate any potential negative impacts to medically underserved groups identified in the Health Equity Impact Assessment? (1000 words max) Please note: this narrative must be made available to the public and posted conspicuously on the Applicant’s website until a decision on the application has been made. Through the implementation of this project, NYULH aims to enhance the patient experience and ensure patients are receiving the superior care that they deserve in locations that are easy to locate and navigate. NYULH has extensive experience with projects similar in scope (i.e., relocations). While the HEIA highlights some potential issues with this move, we are in the early stages of the planning process and are giving all concerns strong consideration. Regarding concerns about emergency transport services, should a patient require a higher level of care we will adhere to the same stringent escalation policies we currently have in place for all off site care. In the past 12 months in the Congenital Heart Center’s location in Kimmel, there have been no cardiac arrests or code resuscitations or other medical emergencies requiring transfer. However, in the event an emergency medical condition is identified, NYULH will stabilize the patient and expeditiously transfer them to the Emergency Department (ED) to provide the necessary care. It is crucial to emphasize that the Center’s entrance is located approximately 50 yards from the ED entrance doors. Under Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) requirements, the new location falls well within the 250 yard rule, supporting our ability to utilize stretchers or wheelchairs to safely transport stabilized patients directly to the ED within our hospital. While there may be situations in which it is determined that an ambulance is the most appropriate means of transfer, the general process would not necessarily require ambulance assisted transport. As such, we are unaware of any valid concerns with the provision of an ambulance to support transfer from the new location to the ED. In the rare circumstance that an ambulance may be needed, there are ample financial resources available for patients should they need financial assistance. (The Independent Entity reviewed NYULH’s Financial Assistance and Charity Care Policy extensively and referenced this in the Health Equity Impact Assessment.) Maintaining appropriate staffing levels is a key part of our site implementation planning. We will determine the most effective staffing based on volume trends and patient care needs. NYULH is committed to using actual data to plan staffing needs. Regarding recruitment, we are proactive in our efforts, continuously filling positions despite May 2023 26industry wide challenges. Our comprehensive recruitment plan will be in place well before the clinic's opening to ensure smooth operations. We assess our staffing needs regularly based on patient volume and service demands. We also offer competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment to attract and retain top talent. Regarding concerns obtaining supplies needed to support families with infants during visits at the Center, NYULH will have all equipment, supplies, and supports needed to care for patients from infants to young adults. As previously mentioned, there will be a detailed implementation planning process to ensure that everything included within the clinic today, as well as any additional items needed, are available prior to the start of patient visits in this new location. Staff travel between buildings is a common aspect of our urban hospital campus environment and is managed through planned and coordinated visits. Our staff are accustomed to moving between different locations as part of their daily routines. The new clinic location, being just across the street from the current location within Kimmel Pavilion, does not pose an undue burden on staff as the nature of travel between locations will be planned and scheduled as well as focused on organized transitions of care rather than urgent, unplanned movements. Supports and services are in place to ensure that urgent situations are managed effectively without requiring staff to rush between locations. This structured approach ensures continuity of care for our patients, with the same familiar staff attending to them both in the clinic and the hospital settings. This approach ensures that our professional staff can deliver high quality care in both settings, maintaining the continuity of care that is crucial for our patient's well being.


Sent via email from RED+F Vendor Notice on 10/25/2022 Subject: COVID 19 Vaccination Exemption Document for RED+F Approval Procedure for RED+F Contractor COVID 19 Vaccination Exemption Requests As a healthcare organization that prioritizes quality and safety and to assure the health of our patients, staff, and visitors, NYU Langone Health (NYULH) instituted a requirement in 2021 that all Contractors/Vendors and their personnel be fully vaccinated1 for COVID 19 if they provide services in or on any premises owned oroperated by NYULH or any of its affiliates. This document reviews the requirements for contractors/vendors who wish to apply for an exemption to the COVID 19 vaccination requirement. Exemptions will be strictly limited to specific Contractor/Vendor personnel and allowed only with the approval of the Senior Vice President, Facilities Management. In order to be considered for an exemption, the following requirements and conditions must be met: 1. The Contractor/Vendor must submit the following information in writing to their Facilities, Real Estate orConstruction Project Manager:•A brief description of the nature and type of service/work to be performed.•A description of the location(s) where services will be provided including whether the locationsinclude patient care areas or procedural areas.•The period of time or dates during which the services are expected to be performed.•The name(s) of the individuals for whom the exemption is being requested and the specific typeof work these individuals will be performing.•The Contractor/Vendor must agree to have immediately available, and provide upon request,their written policies and procedures (i.e. COVID 19 Prevention Plan) describing how theysupport vaccination, minimize exposure to COVID 19, screen employees and notify otheremployers about potential COVID 19 exposures in the workplace.2. Exempted contractor/vendor personnel providing on site services in patient care or procedural areasshall provide proof of a negative PCR test once every two weeks via email to their Facilities, RealEstate or Construction Project Manager.3. All exempted contractor/vendor personnel who wish to access NYULH facilities with a controlledentrance will be required to undergo the temperature check and symptom assessment. If the individualdoes not accept the screening protocols, or does not pass the screening tests he/she will not beadmitted.For admission to NYULH facilities which do not have a controlled entrance, the contractor/vendor mustagree to have immediately available, and provide upon request, documentation for daily temperaturechecks and symptom assessment for all exempted contractor personnel. 4. Additionally, all contractor/vendor personnel (exempted and non exempted) are required to comply with all applicable CDC guidelines and NYULH protocols when accessing NYULH facilities. These include the following: • Personnel must wear a face mask which covers the nose and mouth at all times when on NYULH properties (bandannas, neck gaiters and face shields will not satisfy this requirement); • Personnel must maintain social distancing by keeping more than 6 feet away from others when possible; and • Personnel must practice proper hand hygiene. Contractor/Vendor personnel may be denied entry or asked to leave our facilities at any time for failure to comply with the above or any other NYU Langone Health policies. Real Estate Development and Facilities (RED+F) 339 East 28th Street, New York, NY 10016 T 212 263 7995 1Fully vaccinated is defined as 14 days past completion of a CDC approved COVID 19 vaccine series i.e. either one dose of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine or two doses of the Pfizer, Moderna or Novavax vaccines.


Sent via email from RED+F Vendor Notice on 09/24/2022 Subject: Requirements Related to COVID 19 Applicable to RED+F Contractors & Service Providers that Function as Extensions of Staff 001 As a healthcare organization that prioritizes quality and safety and to assure the health of our patients, staff, and visitors, NYU Langone Health (NYULH) has instituted the following requirements to help stop the spread of COVID 19. They are applicable to RED+F contractors, service providers, vendors, and consultants that function as extensions of staff (collectively “Contractors/Vendors”) and their subcontractors, sub consultants, and personnel (collectively “personnel”). COVID Vaccinations We have changed the previously announced timeline for compliance with the requirement that all Contractors/Vendors who provide services in or on any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates (NYULH facilities) must be fully vaccinated: In line with the order set by NYS, all Contractors/Vendors and their personnel who provide services in or on any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates are required to be fully vaccinated by October 25 (with their first dose by September 27). Fully vaccinated is defined as 14 days past completion of the vaccine series. Contractors/Vendors are required to maintain records that provide proof that all personnel who provide services in any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates have been fully vaccinated. Upon request, Contractors/Vendors will provide those records to their NYULH Project/Operations/Facilities/or other Manager or Tenant Coordinator (collectively, the “Manager”). Beginning September 27, 2021, all Contractor/Vendor personnel must carry proof of vaccination status and may be asked to show proof of vaccination status at any time in or on NYULH facilities. Proof may be either hard copy or electronic. The only allowable exemption is for medical reasons. Any Contractor with personnel seeking a medical exemption is to provide their Manager with a list of the names of any such personnel. We will provide information about the process for seeking a medical exemption. An exemption request must be approved in advance by NYULH. If an exemption request is approved, the individual must follow NYULH masking requirements and comply with COVID 19 testing requirements as instructed. NYULH will not provide or pay for these tests. Contractors are required to follow our instructions regarding reporting test results. Contractors/Vendors remain responsible for meeting project schedules and deliverables regardless of the vaccination status of their personnel. Positive COVID 19 Test Reporting All Contractors/Vendors must immediately report any worker who tests positive for COVID 19 and has been in or on NYULH facilities in the last 48 hours. The report must include the name of the worker and note the location(s) where the worker has been while on site. The Contractor/Vendor must make the report via email to their NYULH Manager. The Contractor/Vendor will also provide written notice to all of their personnel as well as other Contractors/Vendors whose personnel were likely to have had a workplace exposure, which is defined as having been within 6 feet of an infected person (i.e., confirmed COVID 19 positive) for at least 10 minutes any time during the period starting from 48 hours before symptom onset or positive diagnosis until the time the infected person was isolated. Cleaning/Disinfecting Contractors/Vendors are responsible for following the appropriate CDC cleaning and disinfection recommendations for the immediate work area and equipment used by any individual diagnosed with COVID 19 within the previous 24 hours. If common areas such as bathrooms or shared items have already been routinely cleaned and disinfected, there is no need for additional action. If more than 7 days since the person who is sick visited or used the facility, additional cleaning and disinfection is not necessary. Continue routine cleaning and disinfection. Entrance Screening Contractors/Vendors who wish to access NYULH facilities which have a controlled entrance will be subject to temperature check and symptom assessment. If the individual does not accept the screening protocols, or does not pass the screening tests he/she will not be admitted. For admission to NYULH facilities which do not have a controlled entrance, please coordinate with the NYULH Manager who requested the service prior to arrival for communication of your obligations with respect to our screening requirements. Compliance with Other Applicable Requirements Contractors/Vendors are required to comply with all other applicable federal, state, local, and NYULH requirements related to masking, social distancing, and other measures designed to control the spread of COVID 19. Thank you for your cooperation. Paul Schwabacher Senior Vice President, Facilities Management Real Estate Development + Facilities NYU Langone Health


Sent via email from RED+F Vendor Notice on 09/24/2022 Subject: Requirements Related to COVID 19 Applicable to RED+F Contractors & Service Providers that DO NOT Function as Extensions of Staff 002 As a healthcare organization that prioritizes quality and safety and to assure the health of our patients, staff, and visitors, NYU Langone Health (NYULH) has instituted the following requirements to help stop the spread of COVID 19. They are applicable to all RED+F contractors, service providers, vendors, and consultants (collectively “Contractors/Vendors”) and their subcontractors, sub consultants, and personnel (collectively “personnel”) that do not function as extensions of staff. We have separately identified contractors that function as extensions of staff. COVID Vaccinations We have changed the previously announced timeline for compliance with the requirement that all Contractors/Vendors who provide services in or on any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates (NYULH facilities) must be fully vaccinated: All Contractors/Vendors and their personnel who provide services in or on any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates are required to be fully vaccinated by October 25 (with their first dose by September 27). Fully vaccinated is defined as 14 days past completion of the vaccine series. There are no exemptions allowed for any reason for any personnel working in or on any NYULH facilities. Contractors/Vendors will be required to maintain records that provide proof that all personnel who provide services in any premises owned or operated by NYULH or any of its affiliates have been fully vaccinated. Upon request, Contractors/Vendors will provide those records to their NYULH Project/Operations/Facilities/or other Manager or Tenant Coordinator (collectively, the “Manager”). Beginning September 27, 2021, all Contractor/Vendor personnel must carry proof of vaccination status and may be asked to show proof of vaccination status at any time in or on NYULH facilities. Proof may be either hard copy or electronic. Contractors/Vendors remain responsible for meeting project schedules and deliverables regardless of the vaccination status of their personnel. Positive COVID 19 Test Reporting All Contractors/Vendors must immediately report any worker who tests positive for COVID 19 and has been in or on NYULH facilities in the last 48 hours. The report must include the name of the worker and note the location(s) where the worker has been while on site. The Contractor/Vendor must make the report via email to their NYULH Manager. The Contractor/Vendor will also provide written notice to all of their personnel as well as other Contractors/Vendors whose personnel were likely to have had a workplace exposure, which is defined as having been within 6 feet of an infected person (i.e., confirmed COVID 19 positive) for at least 10 minutes any time during the period starting from 48 hours before symptom onset or positive diagnosis until the time the infected person was isolated. Cleaning/Disinfecting Contractors/Vendors are responsible for following the appropriate CDC cleaning and disinfection recommendations for the immediate work area and equipment used by any individual diagnosed with COVID 19 within the previous 24 hours. If common areas such as bathrooms or shared items have already been routinely cleaned and disinfected, there is no need for additional action. If more than 7 days since the person who is sick visited or used the facility, additional cleaning and disinfection is not necessary. Continue routine cleaning and disinfection. Entrance Screening Contractors/Vendors who wish to access NYULH facilities which have a controlled entrance will be subject to temperature check and symptom assessment. If the individual does not accept the screening protocols, or does not pass the screening tests he/she will not be admitted. For admission to NYULH facilities which do not have a controlled entrance, please coordinate with the NYULH Manager who requested the service prior to arrival for communication of your obligations with respect to our screening requirements. Compliance with Other Applicable Requirements Contractors/Vendors are required to comply with all other applicable federal, state, local, and NYULH requirements related to masking, social distancing, and other measures designed to control the spread of COVID 19. Thank you for your cooperation. Paul Schwabacher Senior Vice President, Facilities Management Real Estate Development + Facilities NYU Langone Health


NYULH Covid 19 isolation and quarantine, testing, return to work and personal protective equipment requirements for contractor personnel Sent via email from RED+F Vendor Notice on 1/14/2022 Ladies and Gentlemen: In light of the highly contagious Covid omicron variant and updated CDC and NYS guidelines, the attached NYULH 1 6 22 memo has been issued. Please speak with the workers about the importance of staying home if they test positive or experience Covid symptoms and complete the required isolation outlined in the memo. With regards to personal protective equipment, contractor personnel working in an active patient care area not behind a smoke tight construction partition are required to wear an N 95 respirator to protect others and themselves. Use of an N 95 respirator requires employer compliance with OSHA’s Respiratory Protection Program which includes medical clearance, fit testing and training. N 95 respirators rely on a seal between the respirator and the face. Therefore, workers wearing an N 95 must be clean shaven for them to be effective. In indoor non patient care areas, workers are required to wear a tight fitting mask which covers the nose and mouth at all times. The use of gaiters, bandanas and masks with an exhalation valve (see attached photo) are not acceptable. Paul Schwabacher Senior Vice President Facilities Management


Authorization for Storage and Ongoing Credit Card Charges Authorization As a service to our patients we now have the ability to securely store your credit card(s) in our system. This will speed up your check in process in the office and allow you to pay for your visit if you do not have your credit card with you. Your full credit card number(s) will never be viewable or accessible to staff. We will also never charge for any services that you do not authorize. Please note that MyChart (mychart.nyulmc.org), our online patient portal, can also store credit cards but it is maintained separately. I authorize NYU Langone Medical Center to store my credit card information and bill the credit card on file for services I receive at NYULMC. I understand that NYULMC will only charge this credit card for amounts authorized by me and that upon your request a receipt will be provided for all charges processed in a practice location and/or I will be able to see my payment information on MyChart, our online patient portal. I will notify NYULMC in writing if I no longer want my credit card information maintained or automatically billed. I understand that if I do not want my credit card billed for this purpose, I am still responsible for these fees and will be billed accordingly. Patient Name Print Name (as it appears on credit card): Last 4 digits of credit card #: Signature of Cardholder: Date: 10/19/16


Hempstead: Data at a GlancePrepared by: NYU Langone Health Community Service PlanHighest asthma related Emergency Departmentvisit rate in Nassau CountyHighest teen pregnancy ratein Nassau CountyHighest rate of public school students withobesity in Nassau CountyChildren's Health152 per 10,00062 per 1,00026 per Incorporated Village of HempsteadNassau CountyNew YorkPopulation59, Latinx Black WhiteNativity and LanguageBorn outside USSpeak SpanishHempsteadNassau County High school degreeor higherPovertyHouseholds withno vehicleavailableRenter occupiedhouseholdsAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020American Community Survey, 2016 2020Decennial Census 2020CDC PLACES : 2018, 2019NYSDOH, SPARCS, 2016 19NYSDOH, Vital Stats, 2017 19NYSDOH, SWSCR, 2017 18https://nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan ObeseAdult HealthHigh Blood PressureDiabetes18 64 years: No Health Insurance Hempstead is the most populous village in NassauCounty. Residents value its diversity, location, andsense of community. A number of community basedorganizations offer resources and support. Beyond the NumbersHempsteadNassauHempsteadNassauHempsteadNassauRoutine Doctor VisitHempsteadNassauDental VisitHempsteadNassauHempsteadNassauNo physical activityHempsteadNassauCurrent SmokingHempsteadNassauMental health not goodHempsteadNassauHempstead: Data At A Glance: Data Source NotesMeasuresData SourceData Obtained FromGeography* Total Population * Percent of population who identify as Black* Percent of population who identify as Latinx* Percent of population who identify as White* Percent of population born outside the United States* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish* Percent of population ages 25 years or older who have at least a high school degree* Percent of individuals for whom poverty status is determined who live in households with incomes below the Federal Poverty Level* Percent of households with no vehicle available* Percent of households renter occupied* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told high blood pressure a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older with obesity (body mass index ≥ 30) a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told diabetes a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older had routine doctor visit in past year a* Percent of adults ages 18 64 years who do not have health insurance a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older with no leisure time physical activity in past month a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older who currently smoke a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older whose mental health was not good on ≥14 days of past 30 days a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older had a dental visit in past year aCDC PLACES, 2018CDC PLACEScdc.gov/placesVillage of Hempstead (Hempstead Census Designated Place)* Asthma related emergency department visits, rate per 10,000 children ages 0 to 17 yearsNYS SPARCS, 2016 2019NYS DOH Prevention Agenda DashboardZip Code 11550* Pregnancy rate per 1,000 girls ages 15 19 yearsNYS Vital Statistics, 2017 2019NYS DOH Prevention Agenda DashboardZip Code 11550* Percent of public school children grades K 12 with obesityNYS DOH Student Weight Status Category Reporting System (SWSCR)NYS Student Weight Data Explorer Hempstead School Districta age adjusted to US 2000 Standard PopulationQuestions/Comments: Contact the Brooklyn Data Station (brooklyndatastation@nyulangone.org) October 2022CDC PLACES, 2019CDC PLACEScdc.gov/placesVillage of Hempstead (Hempstead Census Designated Place)Decennial Census 2020US Census Bureau data.census.gov Village of Hempstead (Hempstead Census Designated Place)American Community Survey, 2016 2020US Census Bureau data.census.gov Census Reporter censusreporter.orgVillage of Hempstead (Hempstead Census Designated Place)


Lower East Side/Chinatown: Data at a GlancePrepared by: NYU Langone Health Community Service PlanAsthma related EmergencyDepartment visit rate5 to 17 yearsBirths to girls15 19 yearsPublic school studentsgrades K 8 with obesityChildren's Health228 per 10,0005 per 1,00016 per 100High Blood PressureObeseDiabetesCommunity District 3ManhattanNew York163, White Asian LatinxPopulation and LanguageSpeak language other than EnglishAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020American Community Survey, 2016 2020Decennial Census 2020Community Health Survey, 2017 2018; 2019 2020 *interpret with caution due to small sample sizeHave personal healthcare providerDidn't get neededmedical care 18 64 year oldswithout health insurance*NYSDOH, SPARCS, 2018NYC Vital Statistics, 2017 2019NYC DOE, FITNESSGRAM,2016 2017https://nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan similar to NYC lower than NYC similar to NYCAsthma similar to NYCAdult Health similar to NYCOften/sometimes didn'thave enough food similar to NYC similar to NYC similar to NYCBeyond the NumbersThe Lower East Side and Chinatown is a historic neighborhood long home tomany immigrants. Cultural diversity and landmarks attract many residentsand visitors. Public housing is a vital resource. A number of community based organizations provide resources and support. higher than NYC lower than NYC lower than NYCCD 3East VillageLower East SideChinatownBornOutside USSevererent burden Black speak English less than very wellSpeak SpanishSpeak Chinese dialect speak English less than very well speak English less than very wellPovertyNYCLower East Side/Chinatown: Data At A Glance: Data Source NotesMeasuresData SourceData Obtained FromGeography* Total Population * Percent of population who identify as Asian* Percent of population who identify as Black* Percent of population who identify as Latinx* Percent of population who identify as White* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak language other than English at home* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak language other than English who speak English less than very well* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish at home* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish at home who speak English less than very well* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak a Chinese language at home* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak a Chinese language at home who speak English less than very well* Percent of population born outside the United States* Percent of individuals for whom poverty status is determined who live in households with incomes below the Federal Poverty Level* Percent of renter occupied households whose gross rent is or more of household income* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told high blood pressure a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older with obesity (body mass index ≥ 30) a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told diabetes a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older still have asthma a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older have a personal health care provider a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older didn’t get needed medical care a* Percent of adults ages 18 64 years who do not have health insurance* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older often/sometimes didn’t have enough food to eat aNYC Community Health Survey, 2017 2018 cNYU analysis of data from NYC Health DeptCommunity District, Manhattan 3, (PUMA, 2010, approximation)* Asthma related emergency department visits, rate per 10,000 children ages 5 to 17 yearsNYS SPARCS, 2018NYC Environment and Health Data Portal United Hospital Fund Neighborhood, 309 (Zip codes 10002, 10003, 10009)* Birth rate per 1,000 girls ages 15 19 yearsNYC Vital Statistics, 2017 2019Citizens Committee for ChildrenCommunity District, Manhattan 3* Percent of public school children grades K 8 with obesityNYC DOE FITNESSGRAM, 2016 2017NYC Community Health Profile, 2018Community District, Manhattan 3October 2022Decennial Census 2020NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderCommunity District Tabulation Area, 2020:Manhattan CD 3American Community Survey, 2016 2020 NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderCommunity District Tabulation Area, 2020:Manhattan CD 3NYC Community Health Survey, 2019 2020 bNYU analysis of data from NYC Health DeptCommunity District, Manhattan 3, (PUMA, 2010, approximation)a age adjusted to US 2000 Standard Population; b CHS 2019 2020 Community District data are weighted to the NYC adult residential population per the American Community Survey, 2019; c CHS 2017 2018 Community District data are weighted to the NYC adult residential population per the American Community Survey 2013 2017; CHS data based on comparisons between Lower East Side/Chinatown and the rest of New York City. Questions/Comments: Contact the Brooklyn Data Station (brooklyndatastation@nyulangone.org) American Community Survey, 2016 2020 NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderCommunity District Tabulation Area, 2020: Manhattan CD 3; Neighborhood Tabulation Areas, 2020: East Village, Lower East Side, Chinatown


Red Hook: Data at a GlancePrepared by: NYU Langone Health Community Service PlanChildren's Health147per 10,Red HookBrooklynNew YorkPopulation 11, Latinx Black WhiteNativity and LanguageBorn outside USSpeak SpanishAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020Decennial Census 2020CDC PLACES : 2018, 2019NYSDOH, SPARCS, 2016 2019https://nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan DiabetesBeyond the NumbersDental visitNo leisure time physical activityCurrent smokingAsthma related Emergency Department visitrate for kids 0 17 yearsRed Hook is a resilient and diverse communitylocated along the Brooklyn waterfront. Morethan one half of Red Hook residents live inRed Hook Houses, the second largest publichousing development in New York City. Anumber of community based organizationsprovide resources and support. Adult HealthNo health insuranceadults 18 64 years Red HookNYCAsthmaRed HookCT 85CT 53.01, 53.02, 53.03, 59NYCPovertyHigh schoolgraduateRenter occupiedhouseholdsAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020Householdswith broadbandinternetCT: Census Tract; Red Hook Houses (public housing) are located in CT 85Red Hook199per 10,000NYCRed Hook Census Tracts, 2020Routine doctor visitRed Hook: Data At A Glance: Data Source NotesMeasuresData SourceData Obtained FromGeography* Total Population * Percent of population who identify as Black* Percent of population who identify as Latinx* Percent of population who identify as White* Percent of population born outside the United States* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish* Percent of population ages 25 years or older who have at least a high school degree* Percent of individuals for whom poverty status is determined who live in households with incomes below the Federal Poverty Level* Percent of households with a broadband internet subscription* Percent of households renter occupied* Percent of adults ages 18 64 years who do not have health insurance* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older who had a routine doctor visit in past 12 months* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older with no leisure time physical activity in past month* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older who currently smoke* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told diabetes* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older currently have asthma* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older had a dental visit in past yearCDC PLACES, 2018CDC PLACEScdc.gov/placesBrooklyn Census Tracts 201053, 59, 85* Asthma related emergency department visits, rate per 10,000 children ages 0 to 17 yearsNYS SPARCS, 2016 2019NYS DOH Prevention Agenda DashboardZip Code 11231Questions/Comments: Contact the Brooklyn Data Station (brooklyndatastation@nyulangone.org) October 2022CDC PLACES, 2019CDC PLACEScdc.gov/placesBrooklyn Census Tracts 201053, 59, 85Decennial Census 2020US Census Bureau data.census.gov Brooklyn Census Tracts 202053.01, 53.02, 53.03, 59, 85American Community Survey, 2016 2020NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderBrooklyn Census Tracts 202053.01, 53.02, 53.03, 59, 85


Sunset Park: Data at a GlancePrepared by: NYU Langone Health Community Service PlanAsthma related EmergencyDepartment visit rate5 to 17 yearsBirths to girls15 19 yearsPublic school studentsgrades K 8 with obesityChildren's Health91 per 10,00018 per 1,00018 per 100High Blood PressureObeseDiabetesSunset Park BrooklynNew YorkNativity and LanguageBorn outside United States Speak language other than EnglishSunset ParkNew YorkCity High school degreeor higherPovertyHouseholds withbroadband internetRenter occupiedhouseholdsAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020American Community Survey, 2016 2020Community Health Survey, 2017 2018; 2019 2020 Have personal healthcare provider Didn't get neededmedical care 18 64 year oldswithout health insuranceNYSDOH, SPARCS, 2018NYC Vital Statistics, 2017 2019NYC DOE, FITNESSGRAM,2016 2017https://nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan similar to NYC similar to NYC Asthma similar to NYCAdult Health similar to NYCOften/sometimes didn'thave enough food lower than NYC similar to NYC similar to NYCBeyond the NumbersSunset Park is a residential, industrial and commercial neighborhood inSouthwest Brooklyn, long home to new immigrants. Two vibrant commercialcorridors of restaurants and local businesses serve this multi culturalcommunity. A number of community based organizations provide resourcesand support. lower than NYC higher than NYC similar to NYCPopulation Asian Latinx146,000 WhiteDecennial Census 2020 similar to NYCSpeak SpanishSpeak Chinese dialect speak English less than very well speak Englishless than very well speak Englishless than very wellSunset Park: Data At A Glance: Data Source NotesMeasuresData SourceData Obtained FromGeography* Total Population * Percent of population who identify as Asian* Percent of population who identify as Latinx* Percent of population who identify as White* Percent of population born outside the United States* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak language other than English* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak language other than English who speak English less than very well* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak Spanish at home who speak English less than very well* Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak a Chinese dialect * Percent of population ages 5 years or older who speak a Chinese language at home who speak English less than very well well* Percent of population ages 25 years or older who have at least a high school degree* Percent of individuals for whom poverty status is determined who live in households with incomes below the Federal Poverty Level* Percent of households with a broadband internet subscription* Percent of households renter occupied* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told high blood pressure a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older with obesity (body mass index ≥ 30) a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older ever told diabetes a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older still have asthma a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older have a personal health care provider a* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older didn’t get needed medical care a* Percent of adults ages 18 64 years who do not have health insurance* Percent of adults ages 18 years or older often/sometimes didn’t have enough food to eat aNYC Community Health Survey, 2017 2018 cNYU analysis of data from NYC Health DeptCommunity District, Brooklyn 7, (PUMA, 2010, approximation)* Asthma related emergency department visits, rate per 10,000 children ages 5 to 17 yearsNYS SPARCS, 2018NYC Environment and Health Data Portal United Hospital Fund Neighborhood, 205 (Zip codes 11220, 11232)* Birth rate per 1,000 girls ages 15 19 yearsNYC Vital Statistics, 2017 2019Citizens Committee for ChildrenCommunity District, Brooklyn 7* Percent of public school children grades K 8 with obesityNYC DOE FITNESSGRAM, 2016 2017NYC Community Health Profile, 2018Community District, Brooklyn 7October 2022a age adjusted to US 2000 Standard Population; b CHS 2019 2020 Community District data are weighted to the NYC adult residential population per the American Community Survey, 2019; c CHS 2017 2018 Community District data are weighted to the NYC adult residential population per the American Community Survey 2013 2017; CHS data based on comparisons between Sunset Park and the rest of New York City. Questions/Comments: Contact the Brooklyn Data Station (brooklyndatastation@nyulangone.org) NYC Community Health Survey, 2019 2020 bNYU analysis of data from NYC Health DeptCommunity District, Brooklyn 7, (PUMA, 2010, approximation)Decennial Census 2020NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderNeighborhood Tabulation Area, 2020:Sunset Park WestSunset Park CentralSunset Park East/Borough Park WestAmerican Community Survey, 2016 2020NYC Dept of City PlanningPopulation Fact FinderNeighborhood Tabulation Area, 2020:Sunset Park WestSunset Park CentralSunset Park East/Borough Park West


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Designated Record Set Policy Patients have the right to inspect, amend, and obtain copies of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) that is contained within a Designated Record Set. The Designated Record Set includes medical and billing records, and other records that are used in whole or in part by or for NYU Langone Health to make decisions about individuals. This includes records that are used to make decisions about any individuals, whether or not the records have been used to make a decision about the particular individual requesting access. This includes both paper and electronic records and systems. Records that otherwise meet the Designated Record Set definition but are held by a NYU Langone Health Business Associate are also part of the Designated Record Set. Information in a Designated Record Set will be retained according to state and federal laws and regulations and in accordance with NYU Langone Health’ s Records Retention Policies. Workforce Members must pay particular attention to those records that are not included in the Designated Record Set and which are not available for patient inspection and amendment. Any questions regarding requests for those types of records should be referred to the Privacy Officer or the Office of General Counsel. Examples of Records included in the Designated Record Set • Inpatient and Outpatient records • Day Surgery records • Emergency Department records • X rays, Imagining and Radiology reports, films, digital copies of films • Pathology reports and slides • History and Physical examinations and reports • Orders • Progress notes • Procedure and Operative reports • Vital signs • Psychiatric Assessments and Evaluations • Laboratory reports Page 2 of 3 • Consultation reports • Psychosocial history reports • Photographs or videos • Authorizations and consents, including research consents related to health care treatment decisions • Billing records • Remittance advice • Case management records • Other records that are used to make health care decisions about the patient (e.g., other diagnostic tests and results; interpretive reports, telephone encounters) Note on External Records External records are those records which were not created by or originated at NYU Langone Health. For example, records (notes, reports) patients bring from a non NYU Langone Health physician. If external records are used to make health care decisions about a patient, then those records are part of the Designated Record Set. Examples of Records not included in the Designated Record Set The following are not part of the Designated Record set even if they include PHI because they are not used to make health care decisions about a patient. A patient does not have a right to access these records for any purpose. • Quality assessment records • Credentialing records • Peer review files • Incident report (e.g., reports regarding devices) • Internal Grievance reports • Information contained in employee records • Information contained in the servers of a health information exchange in which NYU Langone Health participates that has not been integrated into a Designated Record Set • Financial reports used for health care operations (e.g., inventory control or purchasing activities) • Coding queries • Internal compliance reports, audits, and logs • Administrative records • Attorney client privileged records, or any other record that is subject to privilege under state and/or federal laws and regulations • Public health records and statistical data • Temporary notes or worksheets • Laboratory results from a test performed at a laboratory not certified to perform such test(s) under the Clinical Laboratory Evaluation Program (CLEP) or the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments (CLIA) • Any other record that is not used to make health care decisions about the patient Page 3 of 3 Research Records Research records that are not used or are not available (to the treating provider) to make health care decisions about a patient are not part of the Designated Record Set. Records contained in an electronic medical record will be presumed to be available for use in making decisions about a patient, and therefore included in the Designated Record Set. Records that are maintained by but separate from other NYU Langone Health records which are not generally accessible by Workforce Members for purposes unrelated to Research, are not part of the Designated Record Set. Some records are considered for Treatment and Research, such as documentation related to a clinical procedure or other service, even if the activity was undertaken for Research purposes only, and therefore are part of the Designated Record Set. During the course of a Research study, the right to access Research records otherwise contained in the Designated Record Set may be suspended provided the patient agrees to such restriction (at NYU Langone Health, this is included in the standard Research Informed Consent document for the specific study). The right of access is reinstated upon the completion of the Research study. Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Records Management Policy Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Right to Request an Amendment Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.501 45 C.F.R. §164.524(a) 45 C.F.R. §164.526(a) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 3 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Disclosures of PHI by Telephone, Email, or Fax Policy NYU Langone Health will ensure that Disclosures of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) by telephone, fax, or email are relayed in a confidential and secure manner and are restricted to the minimum necessary to achieve the business purpose. Disclosures of PHI by telephone, fax, or email will only be made: • to carry out Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations, • to an authorized person or entity, such as the patient or patient’s designated Personal Representative, and • in accordance with the minimum necessary standard protocols and safeguards. Workforce Members: • caring for patients must be aware of any documented restrictions (e.g., requests for confidential communications) on the release of patient information. • must verify the identity and authority of the individual requesting PHI. o Use professional judgment and act in the patient’s best interest if a concern about the requestor’s identity exists. • should encourage patients to identify those individuals who are permitted to receive information regarding his/her condition. This should be documented in the patient’s medical record. • must not disclose PHI without first confirming that it does not contain sensitive PHI (e.g. reproductive health information, HIV related information, alcohol and substance abuse information, genetic information). If the PHI to be disclosed includes sensitive information then workforce members are obligated to review and comply with the Sensitive PHI policy requirements in advance of any disclosure. Procedure After verifying the identity and authority of the recipient, follow the applicable procedures below to ensure the security of PHI. Telephone Disclosures Page 2 of 3 1. Verify a caller’s identity via confirmation of at least two (2) patient identifiers, notes regarding sharing information in the patient’s medical record, or via call backs or exchange of information. 2. Request to speak directly with the patient. In the case of a language barrier, ask a third party to obtain oral permission from the patient. Document the patient’s oral consent in the medical record, including the name of the third party and the content of the message. 3. Messages left on answering machines should be limited to the caller’s first name, where they are calling from, who they are calling for, and a number to return the call. • Appointment reminders and confirmation of prescription refills may be left on a patient’s answering machine, but only state the minimum amount of information necessary to achieve the purpose of the call (e.g., stating that a prescription is ready, but not what the prescription is for). Email Disclosures 1. Always double check the email recipient prior to sending PHI. Limit the recipient list to the minimum necessary. 2. Always use SendSafe secure email when emailing PHI outside of the NYU Langone Health firewall (i.e., to non @nyulangone.org or @med.nyu.edu accounts). Type [safe], including the square brackets, anywhere in the subject line of the email to send the message securely. 3. NYU Langone Health prefers to communicate with patients electronically via MyChart messaging and not via email when possible. If a patient specifically asks to communicate via email or initiates communication via email, SendSafe secure email must always be used. Exceptions may be made with respect to providing medical records to a patient at his/her request in accordance with the Right to Inspect and Obtain PHI Policy; the Privacy Officer must be consulted for these requests or other requests to communicate patient information via unencrypted email. Email should never be used to communicate urgent patient care matters. Fax Disclosures 1. Always use the NYU Langone Health fax cover sheet when sending PHI by fax. • The cover sheet includes a confidentiality statement instructing anyone who receives the fax in error to destroy the fax and contact the sender or the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management. • Do not include any PHI on the cover sheet. 2. If possible, do not fax highly sensitive PHI, such as PHI about a patient’s drug or alcohol treatment, mental illness, sexually transmitted diseases, or HIV/AIDS status. If it is necessary to fax highly sensitive PHI, notify the recipient when sending the fax so that they can retrieve the fax when it arrives. Page 3 of 3 3. Always double check the fax number prior to sending. Review fax confirmations to validate faxing of the information to the intended recipient. 4. Routinely monitor fax machines to ensure any incoming fax containing PHI is not left on the machine for an extended period of time. Related Documents General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions NYU Langone Health Fax Cover Sheet for PHI Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Safeguarding PHI Send Safe Secure Email (http://central.nyumc.org/shared/legal/compliance/Pages/sendsafe.aspx) Verification of Identity and Authority Prior to Disclosure of PHI Sensitive PHI This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends Policy NYU Langone Health will only Disclose Protected Health Information (“PHI”) to family or friends in accordance with HIPAA and the HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures. When a family member or friend is designated as a patient’s Personal Representative, the Providing PHI to Personal Representatives Policy will guide how NYU Langone Health Discloses PHI. NYU Langone Health generally will not Disclose PHI to family or friends unless the patient has agreed to such Disclosures, except in limited circumstances (for example, for notification purposes as described in Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted By Law Policy). The patient must be provided an opportunity to agree or object to the Disclosure. If an opportunity to agree or object cannot reasonably be provided (e.g., in the case of a medical emergency), NYU Langone Health will Disclose a patient’s PHI if, in exercising professional judgment, Disclosure is in the best interest of the patient. If a patient objects to the Disclosure of their PHI to anyone specifically authorized to receive PHI, the objection must be clearly documented in the patient’s medical record. Procedure 1. Workforce Members should respectfully ask the patient if discussing the patient’s treatment, diagnosis, or medical history in front of family or friends is acceptable. Workforce Members may discuss the patient’s care with the patient, in the presence of friends or family, if the patient either agrees or does not object. 2. If the patient objects to the Disclosure of their PHI to family or friends, Workforce Members will respectfully ask those individuals to leave the room before discussing the patient’s information, including their treatment, diagnosis, or medical history. 3. If the patient objects (and the individual is otherwise specifically authorized to receive PHI) or requests additional restrictions, the following will be documented in the medical record: • what information the patient objected to sharing, • the name and relationship of the person(s) that the patient objected to sharing information with, and Page 2 of 2 • the date and reason (if provided) of the objection. 4. If the patient is not present, is incapacitated, or is in an emergency situation, Workforce Members may Disclose the minimum necessary PHI with family or friends involved in the patient’s care if: • the patient has not previously objected to the disclosure as noted in the patient’s medical record, and • the Workforce Member determines, in the exercise of professional judgment, that the Disclosure is in the best interest of the patient. 5. Workforce Members may release filled prescriptions, medical supplies, or other similar forms of PHI to a person involved in the patient’s care if the patient has authorized such release or if, in the exercise of professional judgment, the Workforce Member reasonably believes it is in the best interest of the patient. 6. Workforce Members shall not Disclose sensitive PHI to friends or family without written consent from the patient or other required documentation.Sensitive PHI includes: • Confidential HIV related information, • mental health information, • alcohol or substance abuse information, and • genetic information, • reproductive health information. 7. Disclosures made in accordance with this Policy are generally not required to be part of an accounting (see Accounting for Disclosures of PHI Policy). Related Documents Accounting for Disclosures of PHI General Uses and Disclosures of PHI HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Providing PHI to Personal Representatives Uses and Disclosures of PHI Required or Permitted by Law Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.510(b) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Dysphagia in NTM Matina Balou, PhD, CCC SLP,BCS S Assistant Professor Department of Otolaryngology Department of Rehabilitation Medicine What is Dysphagia? •The term dysphagia refers to any difficulty moving food from the mouth to stomach. • It is a symptom of disease. •All age groups. •As a result of congenital abnormalities, structural damage and/or medical conditions. 2 Statistics… • Patients with respiratory disorders will often exhibit disorders of swallowing: • In a study of 78 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, it was observed that of them had some degree of dysphagia. Good Fratturelli, Curlee, & Holle, 2000 • Five studies reported that at least of patients with COPD showed to have swallowing dysfunction O’Kane & Groher, 2009 3 Pulmonary Disease and Swallow Physiology Relationship between breathing and swallowing: • Anatomical: brainstem • Anatomical: similar structures used for both upper airway maintenance and swallowing • Physiological: swallowing interrupts the cycle of respiration Does disordered respiration lead to disordered swallowing function? 4 Pulmonary Disease and Swallowing • Respiratory rate may increase, altering coordination between the shared functions of the upper aerodigestive tract. • In pulmonary disease, respiratory demand increases. • Each swallow closes the respiratory system for 1‐2 seconds. • As the respiratory rate increases, it may affect swallowing. 5 Dysphagia and Pulmonary Disease • Chronic cough • Chronic bronchitis • Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease • Obstructive sleep apnea • Pneumonia • Lung cancer • Bronchiectasis and NTM???? 6 Signs and Symptoms •Obvious difficulties •Pneumonia and respiratory infections •Weight loss •Patient complaints 7 Does dysphagia matters? •ASPIRATION PNEUMONIA!!!! •Quality of life 8 Normal Anatomy & Physiology 9 Normal Anatomy & Physiology View during Laryngoscopy View during Videofluoroscopy 10 Stages of Swallowing The act of swallowing function is described in 4 phases: • Oral preparatory phase • Oral phase • Pharyngeal phase • Esophageal phase 11 12 13 14 15 16 Respiratory defenses •The most highly recognized neural response involved in airway protection is coughing. •Coughing is a reflex evoked modification of breathing pattern in response to airway irritation. 17 Purposes of Swallow Study • Adequacy of airway protection. • Coordination of respiration and swallowing. • Food/liquid clearance. • Evaluate the impact of compensatory strategies on physiology. • Decide whether swallowing treatment is indicated. 18 Current Research • Swallow studies were analyzed from 98 newly diagnosed patients with NTM. • Two swallows were analyzed per patient (N=980 swallows). • The primary outcome of interest was airway protection. • The proportion of participants with at least one unsafe swallow was 42.. 19 Current Research • Another outcome of interest was pharyngeal food/liquid clearance. • The proportion of subjects with at least one swallow that did not clear from the pharynx was 89.. 20 Treatment Planning The goal of any treatment program is the re establishment of safe oral intake while maintaining adequate hydration and nutrition. What type of nutritional management is necessary? What type of therapy • Compensatory strategies or exercises? • Direct or indirect? 21 Future Research • Future work should explore swallowing physiology in NTM population. • Further work needs to determine the relationship between impaired swallowing safety and NTM progression. 22 Thank you


HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Chapter 1 _______________________________________________________ Policy 1.3: Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Updated 01/2024; Prior Revision Date 06/2021 Responsible HR Department: Employee & Labor Relations 212 404 3787 Policy: Equal employment opportunity is a fundamental principal at NYU Langone Health, where employment is based upon personal abilities and qualifications without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, age, national origin, citizenship status, disability, military or veteran status, height, weight or any other protected class as established by law. Equal employment opportunity applies to all policies and procedures relating to recruitment, hiring, compensation, benefits, termination, training, transfers, promotion, tenure, participation in organization sponsored educational, social and recreational programs, and all other terms and conditions of employment. As a government contractor or subcontractor, it is also the policy of NYU Langone to undertake affirmative action in employment to comply with applicable federal, state or local requirements. NYU Langone is committed to equal opportunity and affirmative action in employment. The Senior Director of Employee & Labor Relations has overall responsibility for monitoring equal opportunity compliance and affirmative action programs and for implementing, administering, and reviewing these programs through senior leadership and Human Resources in their functional areas of responsibility. The Senior Director of Employee & Labor Relations’ responsibilities also include monitoring policies and procedures to ensure non discriminatory practices and investigating all equal employment opportunity/affirmative action complaints. Chairs, Administrators, Department Heads, Directors and Supervisors are responsible for ensuring that all policies and procedures associated with equal opportunity and affirmative action are adhered to by personnel under their supervision. Any employees with questions or concerns about equal employment opportunities in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of a member of Employee & Labor Relations. HUMAN RESOURCES POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Chapter 1 _______________________________________________________ Key Definitions: Equal Employment Opportunity provides everyone with the same opportunity based on merit and not based on other factors or characteristics. Affirmative Action programs are plans created to increase opportunities in the workplace for underrepresented groups. Step by Step Procedure: To implement these important objectives, NYU Langone: 1. Recruits, hires, trains and promotes all persons without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, marital or parental status, age, national origin, disability, citizenship status, military or veteran status, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, or any other classification protected by applicable federal, state or local law. 2. Make employment decisions consistent with NYU Langone’s equal employment opportunity policy. 3. Ensure that all matters relating to employment decisions, including recruiting, hiring, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoffs, return from layoffs, sponsored training, education, tuition assistance, and social and recreational programs are administered without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, transgender status, gender dysphoria, genetic information, marital status, partnership status, caregiver status, familial status, age, national origin, citizenship status, age, disability, military or veteran status, or any other protected class as established by law. Related Policies • HR Policy 1.2 Equal Employment Opportunity Diversity in the Workplace • HR Policy 1.4 Equal Employment Opportunity for Persons with Disabilities • HR Policy 1.5 Equal Employment Opportunity Affirmative Action Policy for Individuals with Disabilities and Covered Veterans • HR Policy 1.6 Self Identification for Individuals with Disabilities and Covered Veterans


Know Your Rights:Workplace Discrimination is Illegal The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) enforces Federal laws that protect you from discrimination in employment. If you believe you’ve been discriminated against at work or in applying for a job, the EEOC may be able to help. Who is Protected? • Employees (current and• Union members andformer), including managersapplicants for membershipand temporary employeesin a union• Job applicantsWhat Organizations are Covered? • Most private employers• State and local governments(as employers)• Educational institutions (asemployers)• Unions• Staffing agenciesWhat Types of Employment Discrimination are Illegal? Under the EEOC’s laws, an employer may not discriminate against you, regardless of your immigration status, on the bases of: • Race• Color• Religion• National origin• Sex (including pregnancyand related conditions,sexual orientation, or genderidentity)• Age (40 and older)• Disability• Genetic information(including employer requestsfor, or purchase, use, ordisclosure of genetic tests,genetic services, or familymedical history)• Retaliation for filinga charge, reasonablyopposing discrimination,or participating in adiscrimination lawsuit,investigation, or proceeding.What Employment Practices can be Challenged as Discriminatory? All aspects of employment, including: • Discharge, firing, or lay off• Harassment (including unwelcome verbal or physical conduct)• Hiring or promotion• Assignment• Pay (unequal wages or compensation)• Failure to provide reasonable accommodation for a disability or a sincerely held religious belief, observance or practice• Benefits• Job training• Classification• Referral• Obtaining or disclosinggenetic information ofemployees• Requesting or disclosingmedical information ofemployees• Conduct that mightreasonably discouragesomeone from opposingdiscrimination, filing acharge, or participating in aninvestigation or proceeding.What can You Do if You Believe Discrimination has Occurred? Contact the EEOC promptly if you suspect discrimination. Do not delay, because there are strict time limits for filing a charge of discrimination (180 or 300 days, depending on where you live/ work). You can reach the EEOC in any of the following ways: Submit an inquiry through the EEOC’s public portal: Call Visit E Mail Additional information about the EEOC, including information about filing a charge of discrimination, is available at www.eeoc.gov. https://publicportal.eeoc.gov/Portal/Login.aspx 1 800 669 4000 (toll free) 1 800 669 6820 (TTY) 1 844 234 5122 (ASL video phone) an EEOC field office (information at www.eeoc.gov/field office) info@eeoc.gov EMPLOYERS HOLDING FEDERAL CONTRACTS OR SUBCONTRACTS The Department of Labor’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) enforces the nondiscrimination and affirmative action commitments of companies doing business with the Federal Government. If you are applying for a job with, or are an employee of, a company with a Federal contract or subcontract, you are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: Race, Color, Religion, Sex, Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, National Origin Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination by Federal contractors based on race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or national origin, and requires affirmative action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. Asking About, Disclosing, or Discussing Pay Executive Order 11246, as amended, protects applicants and employees of Federal contractors from discrimination based on inquiring about, disclosing, or discussing their compensation or the compensation of other applicants or employees. Disability Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, protects qualified individuals with disabilities from discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment by Federal contractors. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship to the employer. Section 503 also requires that Federal contractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities at all levels of employment, including the executive level. Protected Veteran Status The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, prohibits employment discrimination against, and requires affirmative action to recruit, employ, and advance in employment, disabled veterans, recently separated veterans (i.e., within three years of discharge or release from active duty), active duty wartime or campaign badge veterans, or Armed Forces service medal veterans. Retaliation Retaliation is prohibited against a person who files a complaint of discrimination, participates in an OFCCP proceeding, or otherwise opposes discrimination by Federal contractors under these Federal laws. Any person who believes a contractor has violated its nondiscrimination or affirmative action obligations under OFCCP’s authorities should contact immediately: The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP) U.S. Department of Labor 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20210 1 800 397 6251 (toll free) If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or have a speech disability, please dial 7 1 1 to access telecommunications relay services. OFCCP may also be contacted by submitting a question online to OFCCP’s Help Desk at https://ofccphelpdesk.dol.gov/s/, or by calling an OFCCP regional or district office, listed in most telephone directories under U.S. Government, Department of Labor and on OFCCP’s “Contact Us” webpage at https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/contact. Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial AssistanceRace, Color, National Origin, Sex In addition to the protections of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in programs or activities receiving Federal finan­cial assistance. Employment discrimination is covered by Title VI if the primary objective of the financial assistance is provision of employment, or where employment discrimination causes or may cause discrimination in providing services under such programs. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits employ­ment discrimination on the basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Individuals with Disabilities Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment discrimination on the basis of disability in any program or activity which receives Federal financial assistance. Discrimination is prohibited in all aspects of employment against persons with disabilities who, with or without reasonable accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job. If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any institution which receives Federal financial assistance, you should immediately contact the Federal agency providing such assistance. (Revised 10/20/2022)


Equal Employment Opportunity is THE LAW Private Employers, State and Local Governments, Educational Institutions, Employment Agencies and Labor Organizations Applicants to and employees of most private employers, state and local governments, educational institutions, employment agencies and labor organizations are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGIN Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, protects applicants and employees from discrimination in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment, on the basis of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), or national origin. Religious discrimination includes failing to reasonably accommodate an employee’s religious practices where the accommodation does not impose undue hardship. DISABILITY Title I and Title V of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended, protect qualified individuals from discrimination on the basis of disability in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship. AGE The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended, protects applicants and employees 40 years of age or older from discrimination based on age in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. SEX (WAGES) In addition to sex discrimination prohibited by Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, as amended, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, as amended, prohibits sex discrimination in the payment of wages to women and men performing substantially equal work, in jobs that require equal skill, effort, and responsibility, under similar working conditions, in the same establishment. GENETICS Title II of the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 protects applicants and employees from discrimination based on genetic information in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. GINA also restricts employers’ acquisition of genetic information and strictly limits disclosure of genetic information. Genetic information includes information about genetic tests of applicants, employees, or their family members; the manifestation of diseases or disorders in family members (family medical history); and requests for or receipt of genetic services by applicants, employees, or their family members. RETALIATION All of these Federal laws prohibit covered entities from retaliating against a person who files a charge of discrimination, participates in a discrimination proceeding, or otherwise opposes an unlawful employment practice. WHAT TO DO IF YOU BELIEVE DISCRIMINATION HAS OCCURRED There are strict time limits for filing charges of employment discrimination. To preserve the ability of EEOC to act on your behalf and to protect your right to file a private lawsuit, should you ultimately need to, you should contact EEOC promptly when discrimination is suspected: The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC), 1 800 669 4000 (toll free) or 1 800 669 6820 (toll free TTY number for individuals with hearing impairments). EEOC field office information is available at www.eeoc.gov or in most telephone directories in the U.S. Government or Federal Government section. Additional information about EEOC, including information about charge filing, is available at www.eeoc.gov. Employers Holding Federal Contracts or Subcontracts Applicants to and employees of companies with a Federal government contract or subcontract are protected under Federal law from discrimination on the following bases: RACE, COLOR, RELIGION, SEX, NATIONAL ORIGIN Executive Order 11246, as amended, prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex or national origin, and requires affirmative action to ensure equality of opportunity in all aspects of employment. INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES Section 503 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, protects qualified individuals from discrimination on the basis of disability in hiring, promotion, discharge, pay, fringe benefits, job training, classification, referral, and other aspects of employment. Disability discrimination includes not making reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, barring undue hardship. Section 503 also requires that Federal contractors take affirmative action to employ and advance in employment qualified individuals with disabilities at all levels of employment, including the executive level. DISABLED, RECENTLY SEPARATED, OTHER PROTECTED, AND ARMED FORCES SERVICE MEDAL VETERANS The Vietnam Era Veterans’ Readjustment Assistance Act of 1974, as amended, 38 U.S.C. 4212, prohibits job discrimination and requires affirmative action to employ and advance in employment disabled veterans, recently separated veterans (within three years of discharge or release from active duty), other protected veterans (veterans who served during a war or in a campaign or expedition for which a campaign badge has been authorized), and Armed Forces service medal veterans (veterans who, while on active duty, participated in a U.S. military operation for which an Armed Forces service medal was awarded). RETALIATION Retaliation is prohibited against a person who files a complaint of discrimination, participates in an OFCCP proceeding, or otherwise opposes discrimination under these Federal laws. Any person who believes a contractor has violated its nondiscrimination or affirmative action obligations under the authorities above should contact immediately: The Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs (OFCCP), U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20210, 1 800 397 6251 (toll free) or (202) 693 1337 (TTY). OFCCP may also be contacted by e mail at OFCCP Public@dol.gov, or by calling an OFCCP regional or district office, listed in most telephone directories under U.S. Government, Department of Labor. Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance RACE, COLOR, NATIONAL ORIGIN, SEX INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES In addition to the protections of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, prohibits employment amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in any program or activity which receives discrimination on the basis of race, color or national origin in programs or Federal financial assistance. Discrimination is prohibited in all aspects of activities receiving Federal financial assistance. Employment discrimination employment against persons with disabilities who, with or without reasonable is covered by Title VI if the primary objective of the financial assistance is accommodation, can perform the essential functions of the job. provision of employment, or where employment discrimination causes or may If you believe you have been discriminated against in a program of any cause discrimination in providing services under such programs. Title IX of the institution which receives Federal financial assistance, you should immediately Education Amendments of 1972 prohibits employment discrimination on the contact the Federal agency providing such assistance. basis of sex in educational programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. EEOC 9/02 and OFCCP 8/08 Versions Useable With 11/09 Supplement EEOC P/E 1 (Revised 11/09)


1WelcomeWe can discuss your payment options with you after the doctors tell us that your condition is stable.Your care from the ED to discharge could include: • Treat and ReleaseIf you do not need more emergency care, the doctors and nurses will speak with you to prepare you for discharge. You will then be discharged from the ED.• Observation We will transfer you to a unit for observation to determine if you need inpatient care. While you are in observation status, we may perform tests to help us make a diagnosis. If you require additional treatment, you may be transferred for inpatient or outpatient care.• Outpatient As an outpatient, you will be transferred from the ED to another unit for quick recovery. If you need additional care, you may be admitted as an inpatient.• Inpatient If you need the level of care that requires several days in the hospital, you will be admitted as an inpatient. When a bed is ready, we will take you to the clinical unit. While you’re in the Emergency Department (ED), our top priority is to assess your condition, provide you the care you need, and determine next steps for treatment. To progress your treatment, you may be moved from the ED to another unit for observation, outpatient care, or inpatient care. Even if you are moved from the ED to another bed, you may not be an inpatient. Please ask your care team if you have any questions about your care. 3What you should knowTell us if your pain isn’t improving.Help us help you manage your pain by sharing details of your pain with us.Call, don’t fall!Please ask for help to get out of bed.DenturesHearing AidEyeglassesCell PhoneKeysBe worry free, send your valuables home.These items often get lost. Let your nurse know if you would like to store valuables in the hospital. They can provide patient belonging bags and denture cups.Be an active part of your care.You and your family are the most important part of our team. We invite you and your loved ones to ask questions about the goals of your care. 4It is the policy of NYU Langone Hospitals to provide care, treatment, and services free from discrimination related to race, color, national origin, age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, ancestry, citizenship status, marital or parental status, pregnancy, military or veteran status, religion, socioeconomic status, or any other category protected by law.NYU Langone Hospitals provide free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively such as:• Qualified sign language interpreters• Written information in various formats including, but not limited to, large print documentsIf you speak a language other than English, language assistance services are available to you free of charge. These services include:• Qualified interpreters • Information written in other languagesFor more information about these free services or for assistance, call the Language, Cultural, and Disability Services Department at 1 212 263 3762.If you believe that NYU Langone Hospitals have failed to provide these services or discriminated against you in another way, you can file a grievance by contacting the Patient Relations Office at 1 212 263 6906.ATENCIÓN: Si habla español, tiene a su disposición servicios gratuitos de asistencia lingüística.注意: 如果您使用中文, 您可以免費獲得語言援助服務 。Non discrimination policyWhy am I being moved to multiple locations?You may not stay in the same location based on the severity of your illness and condition. This is determined during your initial assessment.Why am I being asked the same questions by multiple staff?For your safety, multiple members of the staff will ask you the same questions. We want to fully understand your story to provide you with the best care possible.We respect your privacy.In open care spaces, we will make every effort to speak softly. Please feel comfortable to share any concerns you may have with us. Why are other people taken ahead of me?Some patients will need more immediate attention depending on their illness and condition. We want to make sure everyone receives the best care. How long do I have to wait to see a doctor?You can expect to see a doctor or physician assistant within one hour.Can my family be by my side?We understand that having your loved ones at your side can bring comfort. If you are 17 or under, you may have two guests at all times. If you are over 17, you may have one guest. Guests may be asked to step out during busy times.People often askIf you have a question or concern about your visit, please ask any care team member.56Someone from our ED Follow Up Center will contact you in the next one to three days. We want to help you with anything you may need, including scheduling doctor appointments or obtaining medications.If you don’t hear from us, you can reach the ED Follow Up Center at 1 212 263 6695.If you reside outside the United States and need additional care upon discharge, please contact the International Services Department at 1 212 623 3588 or e mail InternationalServices@nyumc.org. Monday Friday: 9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m.E for EmergencyYou should use emergency departments for very serious or life threatening problems. If you are experiencing any of the following symptoms, DON’T WAIT! Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department.• Chest pain• Severe abdominal pain• Coughing or vomiting blood• Severe burns• Deep cuts or bleeding that won’t stop• Sudden blurred vision• Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath• Seizures• Sudden dizziness, weakness, or loss of coordination or balance• Numbness in the face, arm, or leg• Sudden, severe headache (not a migraine)• High fevers• Any other condition you think is serious6570 First Avenue @ 33rd Streetwww.nyulmc.orgNeed your medical records or copies of your tests?1 212 263 5497Sign up for MyChart. Go to mychart.nyulmc.orgMonday Friday: 9:00 a.m. 4:00 p.m.Questions about your hospital bill?1 800 237 6977Monday Friday: 8:00 a.m. 8:00 p.m. Questions about your physician bill?1 877 648 2964Monday Friday: 8:00 a.m. 7:00 p.m.Need a physician referral?1 888 7NYUMED (1 888 769 8633)Monday Friday: 8:30 a.m. 9:00 p.m.Need to refill prescriptions?1 212 263 7319Monday Friday: 8:30 a.m. 7:00 p.m.Saturday: 9:00 a.m. 5:00 p.m.First floor of the Schwartz Health Care Center


DC 11/25/2019 ENVIRONMENTAL SOURCES FOR NON TUBERCULOUS MYCOBACTERIAL INFECTION WHERE IS IT? Pulmonary disease DAVID L. KAMELHAR, M.D. Non HIV Population CLINICAL PROFESSOR OF MEDICINE NYU SCHOOL OF MEDICINE OCTOBER 2019 DC 11/25/2019 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE • Insmed: Speakers bureauNTM 2019 2 DC 11/25/2019 GOALS OF TALK •Understand how understanding environmental factors isimportant in understanding the disease•Understand why those factors are important in assessing theindividual patient•Gain perspective on how the personal (external and internal)environment is the pivotal factor in acquiring the infection•Emphasis on Biofilm in environment, disease and treatment•****Address varying levels of audience experience with NTMNTM 2019 3 DC 11/25/2019 SEQUENCE OF REACTING TO THESE ORGANISMS FOR TODAY • Environment A & A Acquisition Avoidance• Personal predispositions Research updates• Non pharmacologic management Airway clearance• Medication Old and new approachesNTM 2019 4 DC 11/25/2019 LARGE ENVIRONMENT TO LOCAL ENVIRONMENT NTM 2019 5 DC 11/25/2019 Geographic Distribution of NTM identifiedamong Clinical Isolates in the US, 2009 2013 Spaulding, et al. Annals ATS 2017• Significant geographic variation exists in thedistribution of NTM species in the US• M. avium complex much more common in theSouth• M. abscessus in the WestNTM 2019 6 Distribution of MAC by United State geographic region in PremierTM Healthcare Database, 2009 2013.7 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 RELATIVE RISK OF CLUSTERS OF PULMONARY NTM AMONG MEDICARE BENEFICIARIES • High risk Highlands, FL 1.9 Santa Barbara, CA2.0 New York, NY2.7 Kalawao, HI3.7 Plaquemines, LA 6.5• Low risk Washington, RI0.5 Iosco, MI0.4 Roane, WV0.4 NTM 2019 8 DC 11/25/2019 EVAPOTRANSPIRATION “The process by which water is transferred from the land to the atmosphere by evaporation from the soil and other surfaces and by transpiration from plants” NTM 2019 9 DC 11/25/2019 NIH 2012 Adjemian • ASIAN PACIFIC > WHITES 228 VS. 116/ 100,000• WESTERN STATES > EASTERN 149 VS 131• WOMEN > MEN 1.4 TO 1.0Within the same environment, intrinsic factors are operative as well 10 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 PREVALENCE: PROXIMITY TO WATER CF CHILDREN Bouso et al. 2016 • Retrospective chart review 65 children in Florida• 21(32.) had 2+ positive sputum cultures NTM• 3 year follow up• CF patients who lived within 500 meters of water were9.4 times more likely to have NTM • Other significant factors included hx of Aspergillus ORPseudomonas11 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 SHOWERHEAD UPDATE Annals ATS 10.23.2019• Purpose: Test associations between MAC pulmonary disease(MAC PD) and NTM colonization of five potential point of use sources of pathogen exposure in homes• Washington and Oregon residents clinically diagnosed MAC PD• Population age, gender, population matched controls• Samples: Bathroom faucets Kitchen faucets Shower aerosols Indoor soil Outdoor soil12 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 SHOWERHEAD UPDATE Annals ATS 10.23.2019• Findings: More NTM colonization in shower aerosols collectedfrom case homes compared to controls• Other point of use sites did NOT exhibit this association• The FIRST case controlled study between human health and NTMexposure in residential environmental environments• ****This study did not match DNA strains of shower head DNA topatient secretion DNA• Thus other considerations including the overall homeenvironment that promotes NTM growth, etc. to be considered13 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 EPIDEMIOLOGY: HOSPITAL ACQUIRED INFECTION • M. chimaera isolated from multiple patients who hadundergone bypass procedures• Is it possible that non sterile water used in hospitalheating and cooling devices can cause contaminationand clinical infection14 NTM 2019 SAPROZOIC ORGANISMS •OPPP’s: Opportunistic Premise Plumbing Pathogens•Grow within biofilms and sediments, not freely•May be viruses, bacteria, fungi and protozoal diseases•Legionella grows within free living protozoa that reside in thebiofilm•Not all such organisms are pathogenicNeed to understand biofilms to prevail 15 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 SAPROZOIC ORGANISMS CONTROL MEASURES • Central water reservoirs• Regional water distribution systems• Individual homes• Hospitals• Public spaces16 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 M. avium AS OPPP• M. avium grows very slowly ( 1 generation per day) vs. 40 minutesfor average bacteria (e.g. E. coli)• Adheres to biofilm on pipe surfaces• It is not washed out by water flow• Chlorine resistant• Heat resistant survive at 125F for sixty minutes Able to survive in hot water heaters• Survive stagnancy Able to grow in and oxygen as well as oxygen(room air)• Survives/ flourishes in amoebae rather than being killed byamoebae in water systems17 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 CHLORINE RESISTANCE OF OPPP’S vs. E.Coli • Legionella 83 fold• Pseudomonas 21 fold• M. avium 567 fold (!!!!!) Resistance is increased in biofilm state18 NTM 2019 MICRBOIAL LIFE FORMS CYCLE 19 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 BACTERIAL BIOFILM • During biofilm assembly, bacteria secrete a substance (matrix)with polysaccharides, lipids and nucleic acids• This matrix material allows for a biofilm architecture which isthree dimensional• Bacteria in biofilm achieve maximal replication rate• Far higher concentrations of antibiotic required to kill biofilmbacteria than free swimming bacteria of same strain (10 1000X)• When nutrients run out, bacteria can rapidly disperse andcolonize better locations where conditions are more favorableonce more• Very sophisticated system!!!20 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 BIOFILM A SELECTIVE ENVIRONMENT • Biofilms are selective certain surfaces inhibit certainorganisms Pseudomonas will not stick to copper pipe• Copper pipe has to be “primed” by presence of certainproteins or other organisms• M.avium is a “biofilm pioneer” (Falkinham)• The fatty membrane, or hydrophobic membrane drivesadherence to to surfaces of all compositions21 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 BIOFILM AND NTM • M. abscessus less adherent than• M. avium and M. intracellulare on surfaces22 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 MYCOBACTERIAL OUTER MEMBRANE • The major determinant of M. avium complex ecology is the lipidand wax rich outer membrane that surrounds the cell• Long chain fatty acids (C60 80) that make up of the entire cellmass• This membrane is responsible for slow growth (1 gen/day)• Substantial amount of energy/ fuel is diverted to production of thefatty membrane• This creates hydrophobic nature to the organism; a droplet ofwater forms a bead on the surface of M. avium cells• The outer membrane is impermeable to to nutrients clearly adown side• The outer membrane is at the same time resistant to disinfectants(chlorine) and other metals that are microbe toxic anadvantage!!23 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 NTM HABITATS • NATURAL WATERS• DRINKING WATER• HOUSEHOLDS• AEROSOLS Shower heads and water taps• WATER FILTERS• ROOM HUMIDIFIERS• BIOFILM FEATURE KEY IN HUMAN WATER• SOILS• DUSTS24 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 MAC RECOVERY FROM SOIL • In Europe, soil (indoor and outdoor) is a more prevalent reservoirof MAC than are tap water in North America and bathrooms inJapan• Dust aerosolized in homes in Europe where soil contained MACgrew and aerosolized MAC• Hypothesis: Individuals may carry MAC containing dust fromenvironment to environment• New niches may form in this way25 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 NTM IN THE KITCHEN • NTM isolated kitchen sink biofilm, household refrigerator taps andhome ice makers• NTM has been isolated from certain foods and may be involved inthe association between swallowing disorders and esophagealdysfunction (GERD and LPR)26 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 BIOFILM IN NTM DISEASE • NTM LD ( lung disease) often occurs in patients with underlyingdisease (old TB, silicosis, bullous disease, lung cavities• NTM form biofilm in the cavities and progress to cause disease• This is more recently recognized in 1980’s 90 re Lady WindermereSyndrome, including chronic bronchiectasis and Cystic fibrosis• ***Mycobacterial biofilms have recently been identified in samplesfrom lung cavitary disease• Experimental data have shown that biofilm is important in theability of NTM to invade bronchial epithelial cells• Biofilm critical in catheter, dialysis infection and recent M. chimera i nfections i n bypass surgery patients 27 NTM 2019DC 11/25/2019 PERSONAL ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL MYCOBACTERIAL LATENCY Schraufnagel, 2017 • Reviewed study above of Ford noting that most patients ran intoclinical trouble based on co morbidities rather than NTM• Studied country of origin of patients: M. fortuitum increased in Asian born M. lentiflavum increased in African born• Pathology specimens indicate that NTM reside in sub epithelia ofsmall airways of bronchiectatic airways and biofilmsTHUS: Is it possible that individuals harbor organisms far longer than we think AND that they cause bronchiectasis? 28 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 NTM: IMPORTANCE OF BETTER PREVENTION • The infected stay infected• The infected are persistently infected• The infected are repeatedly infectedWorthwhile identifying source of infection 29 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 CONCLUSIONS FOR NOW • Environmental AND host factors• Water and water vapor involved• Aerosol• BiofilmUncertain which individual exposure(s) and behaviors are involved 30 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019 CONTROL OF NON TUBERCULOUS INFECTION PROPOSED CONCLUSIONS • Mycobacterial transmission routes proceed from natural reservesto households via WDS’s• Global spread of pulmonary MAC disease may be caused byhuman activities as individuals carry organisms on theirbelongings• Need to create living environments more comfortable toindividuals and less comfortable to NTM organisms• Need to disrupt biofilms In water systems In airways31 NTM 2019 DC 11/25/2019THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION 32 NTM 2019


USDA Statement If your application for benefits was turned down or your benefits stopped, you have the right to a Fair Hearing. A Fair Hearing is a chance for you to tell a judge why you think the decision is wrong. You must ask for the hearing within 60 days of when your application was turned down or when you were told your benefits will stop. If you don’t ask within the 60 days, you will lose the chance for a fair hearing. Please review the Fair Hearing Supplement for details on the process. Refer to 7CFR §246.9, NYS WIC Program Manual Sections #1100, #1047 and the NYS WIC Rights and Responsibilities document.A certification period is how long you were going to get WIC benefits. If your benefits are stopped in the middle of the certification period and you ask for a hearing within 15 days, your WIC benefits will continue until the hearing result is known or until the end of the certification period, whichever happens first.Ask for a hearing at the WIC local agency (staff will assist you) or contact the NYS WIC Program:1. mail:WIC Program DirectorNYSDOH, Riverview CenterRoom 650, 150 Broadway,Albany, NY 12204;2. phone: (800) 522 5006 fax: (518) 402 7348; or3. email: NYSWIC@HEALTH.NY.GOVIn accordance with federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, this institution is prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), disability, age, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity.Program information may be made available in languages other than English. Persons with disabilities who require alternative means of communication to obtain program information (e.g., Braille, large print, audiotape, American Sign Language), should contact the responsible state or local agency that administers the program or USDA’s TARGET Center at (202) 720 2600 (voice and TTY) or contact USDA through the Federal Relay Service at (800) 877 8339.To file a program discrimination complaint, a Complainant should complete a Form AD 3027, USDA Program Discrimination Complaint Form which can be obtained online at: https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/USDA OASCR%20P Complaint Form 0508 0002 508 11 28 17Fax2Mail.pdf , from any USDA office, by calling (866) 632 9992, or by writing a letter addressed to USDA. The letter must contain the complainant’s name, address, telephone number, and a written description of the alleged discriminatory action in sufficient detail to inform the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (ASCR) about the nature and date of an alleged civil rights violation. The completed AD 3027 form or letter must be submitted to USDA by:1. mail:U.S. Department of AgricultureOffice of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights1400 Independence Avenue, SWWashington, D.C. 20250 9410;2. fax: (833) 256 1665 or (202) 690 7442; or3. email: program.intake@usda.govThis institution is an equal opportunity provider.


Faculty Group Practice DEAF AND HARD OF HEARING PATIENT QUESTIONNAIRE This document will help us understand the best way to communicate with you and to provide you with services you may need. Patient Name: MRN: I am: Deaf Hard of Hearing I communicate in sign language Yes No *I need a sign language interpreter Yes No I can voice for myself Yes No I am a good lip/speech reader Yes No *I need an oral interpreter Yes No I am comfortable communicating by writing Yes No *If you would like an interpreter, one will be provided for you and the doctor free of charge. If you need to contact me: Please text me at Please call me through a relay service Please fax me at Revised: 10 25 2011