Green BM #: HC 123 Name: Boreal Forest BM #: AF 480 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PAINT COLORS Real Estate Development and Facilities 189 2024 Blues Name: Winter Lake BM #: 2129 50 Name: Fiji BM #: AF 525 Name: Old Blue Jeans BM #: 839 Name: Downpour Blue BM #: 2063 20 Reds Name: Shy Cherry BM #: 2007 20 Name: Cranberry CocktailBM #: 2083 20 Purples Name: Bonne Nuit BM #: AF 635 Name: Sea Life BM #: 2118 40 Name: Shadow BM #: 2117 30 Yellows Name: Straw BM #: 2154 50 Name: Bryce Canyon BM #: 098 Grays Name: Cinder BM #: AF 705 Name: Smoke Gray BM #: 2120 40 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines PAINT COLORS Real Estate Development and Facilities 190 2024 TYPICAL ELEVATOR DOOR AND FRAME COLORS Metallic Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10231 WG #: GOH 31951841 Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10232 WG #: GOH 31951842 Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10237 WG #: GOH 31951844 Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10238 WG #: GOH 31951845 Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10244 WG #: GOH 31951846 Name: Solid Metal SM #: SM10250 WG #: GOH 31951847 Name: Solid Metal Satin Sheen SM #: SM159 WG #: GOH 31951848 NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ART PROGRAM Real Estate Development and Facilities 191 2024 ART PROGRAM NYU Langone Health has embarked on a comprehensive visual arts program of the highest quality consistent with our mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research. The NYU Langone Health Art Program and Collection is integrated into the daily life of our organization providing a life affirming, healing and supportive environment for patients, families, caregivers, students, faculty and staff. This is achieved through acquisitions, exhibitions, donations of art and other related visual arts programming. Acquisitions meet overall quality standards with the aim that the art collection appreciates in value over time. 1. Importance of Art in a Healthcare Environment  Over the past decade, art has become an integral component in healthcare environments. As indicated in the State of the Field Report: Arts in Healthcare/2009 survey, nearly half of all healthcare institutions reported having arts in healthcare programs with the majority of these in hospital settings. Studies have shown that these programs improve patients’ overall health outcomes, treatment compliance and quality of life, and foster a positive environment for caregivers that reduces stress and improves workplace satisfaction and employee retention. Spot (2018) © Donald Lipski. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Photo © Jeff Goldberg/Esto 2. Means of Selecting Art  The Design Studio’s Art Group at RED+F identifies and acquires art through gallery visits, studio visits, recommendations as provided by museum curators, art critics and contemporary art historians and Calls to Artists as posted on visual art websites (New York Foundation for the Arts, Public Arts Network, etc.) 3. Capital Construction Projects Many capital construction projects provide excellent opportunities to integrate art into the design of these new facilities.  Emphasis will focus on public spaces with higher visibility resulting in greater impact.  For patient areas, the inclusion and placement of artwork will be a calming distraction.  Placement of artwork will also support wayfinding efforts.  Goal is to create a singular vision and identity throughout an individual project through selection and placement of artwork.  Selection of site specific artwork will involve input from user groups occupying the space.  Art will be selected from a range of artists, from emerging to established. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ART PROGRAM Real Estate Development and Facilities 192 2024 Energy of Endless Universe (Ekpyrotic String VI) © Mariko Mori. NYU Langone Art Program and Collection. Science Building. Photo © Rene Perez 4. Architect’s Responsibilities Where art integration is part of the project scope, art selection will be the responsibility of the Design Studio’s Art Group at RED+F. The A/E Team shall assist with identifying locations for art placement in a project including but not limited to the following:  During Design Development, the architect will work with the Art Manager, Project Manager and users to identify potential locations for art.  The A/E Team shall provide drawings sufficient to identify proposed art locations including plans, elevations and perspectives.  The A/E Team will be responsible for keeping any walls that have been identified for artwork integration, free and clear of any and all electrical devices, room and directional signage, or other potentially distracting items. This includes electrical outlets, telephone/data outlets, light switches, thermostats, fire strobes, furniture, etc.  The A/E Team shall ensure the art has proper lighting. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ROOM NUMBERING, SIGNAGE & WAYFINDING Real Estate Development and Facilities 193 2024 ROOM NUMBERING, SIGNAGE & WAYFINDING The architect is required to use RED+F’s assigned room numbers, and provide full design and programming services related to signage and wayfinding. The A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Wayfinding and Communications Standards Manual, available on both BuildFlow (the NYU Langone Health construction document management site) and the RED+F website at: https://nyulangone.org/vendor supplier information/real estate development facilities design guidelineshttp://nyulangone.org/vendor information/design guidelines. The manual specifies each signage type approved for use at NYU Langone Health facilities. For off campus projects, the A/E Team shall follow these guidelines in conjunction with any building landlord requirements. 1. Architect’s Responsibilities  The architect shall submit the signed off floor plans to the Space Planning and Management Group at RED+F who shall assign the room numbers. The architect shall insert these room numbers on the drawings. RED+F will not accept any other room numbers shown on the documents.  Confirm the Room Number Prefix (if any) with the Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group at RED+F. The architect shall use this Room Number Prefix to produce their signage programming documents.  Confirm requirements for code required emergency/egress signage (i.e. stair and elevator fire egress maps and messaging) and health/safety signage (i.e. chemical, laboratory, hazardous material, radiation, etc.) with Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) at RED+F.  Present signage design options to the Signage/Wayfinding Group.  Produce signage programming documents that include location plans and message schedules for review and approval by the Signage/Wayfinding Group.  Review and approve shop drawings. Shop drawings are also to be forwarded to the Signage/Wayfinding Group for their review and approval.  Punchlist installed signage in coordination with Signage/Wayfinding Group.  Final acceptance of the signage in conjunction with the Signage/Wayfinding Group. Architects, or their consultant, shall be responsible for signage/wayfinding on capital projects. Where there is no architect, signage/wayfinding shall be the responsibility of the Signage/Wayfinding Group. The sign design package may be created by the Architect, a pre approved signage consultant or one of the NYU Langone approved signage vendors. If available, SignAgent shall be used to upload and share project documentation with NYULH and the signage fabricator/installer. When used, NYULH shall be granted visibility, access and full ownership permissions to any project documentation managed with SignAgent. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ROOM NUMBERING, SIGNAGE & WAYFINDING Real Estate Development and Facilities 194 2024 2. Sign Planning and Programming Process There are five groups of signs comprising the NYU Langone system: identification, directional, informational, regulatory, and pageantry. Before programming a facility’s signs, the complete sign typology (contained within the NYU Langone Wayfinding and Communications Standards Manual) should be understood by the signage programmer. The following outlines a step by step approach for sign planning and programming.  Analysis When planning and programming signs the programmer shall know the architectural layout, be familiar with the day to day operations and activities of the end users within the space and consider the perspective of first time visitors. Whenever possible, it is recommended that the sign programmer(s) meet with end users to review how the facility will function. The programmer should explore various visitor scenarios, and locate wayfinding decision points (both clear and obscure) along arrival and departure routes. Consider the route distances and turns from start to end point. Typical questions to ask: Where are the restricted access areas, and for what reasons? Who are the visitors, and for what purposes? What kind of sign types are needed, and where?  Visualization of the Space The programmer should imagine a “visitor eye view” through the department. The programmer should enhance comprehension of the architectural character of the visitor experience, of walking the hallways, facing impaired sightlines, or seeking visual landmarks. High and low ceiling space should be noted, along with wall position and angle, both on first entry and closer approach. The programmer should visualize the look and feel of the spaces, and identify optimal sign locations for decision points, avoiding obstacles. If possible, the programmer should suggest the architect revisit particular design details to accommodate sign locations. Typical questions to ask: Are doors or walls opaque or transparent? What color is the wall finish behind reception, and how tall? Is there any art or furniture nearby when determining placement of signage? Are there any devices (electrical outlets, light switches, thermostats, fire alarm strobes, etc.) or other signs nearby that should be considered when determining placement of signage (with respect to height, alignment, etc.)?  Programming Documentation & Clarification The programmer should issue documents for sign vendors to produce message layouts and shop drawings. Draft documents should be submitted to the RED+F PM, end user representative, and the Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group at RED+F for approval and comments. A unique sign number shall designate floor/location ID (if applicable), designation ID and sign type ID. Typical questions to ask: What is the proper name of the facility? Are there any donor recognition signs? NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 195 2024 FURNITURE In accordance with both our Mission devoted to excellence in patient care, education, and research and our Design Principles of providing timeless designs that are cost effective, efficient, functional and practical, RED+F has compiled a collection of furniture and accessory items that we have found to be successful at NYU Langone Health. Our goals in listing these items are to:  Streamline the design process  Assist the Architect and Interior Designer with specifying furniture and accessory items  Comply with the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, eliminating the use of formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), antimicrobials, and all flame retardants from all furniture and finishes  Meet NYU Langone’s sustainability goals  Create spaces that are timeless, durable, easily maintainable and cost effective  Create a consistent NYU Langone brand The Architect and Interior Designer should use this as a guide for specifying furniture and accessories on NYU Langone capital projects. This information does not relieve the Architect or Interior Designer of specifying products that are appropriate and code compliant for specific spaces. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Also, the Architect and Interior Designer may suggest other products if they believe those proposed products will support our mission, design principles, and the design intent of the project. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: A. Case Goods B. Prefab Casework C. Workstations D. Tables E. Seating F. Storage G. Accessories G.H. Hospitality Furniture and Accessories H.I. Outdoor Furniture Note: For trash and recycling receptacles refer to the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 196 2024 A. CASEGOODS In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical casegoods used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize casegood selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to casegoods:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  All wood office desks and credenzas are for use in VP level offices and above.  Coordinate power/data locations with undercounter pedestal files, etc.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface.  Credenza and/or lectern selection must be coordinated with the NYU Langone AV/IT team. Any proposed alternates must be similarly vetted. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F A1 Private Office F A2 Lecterns F A1 PRIVATE OFFICE Geiger Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1a Levels * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Provide wood front overheads (Catalyst model). Include wardrobe if possible. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 197 2024 Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1b EE6 * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Provide wood or glass front overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. F A1 PRIVATE OFFICE (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1c Canvas * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide laminate or metal overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1cd Answer * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide laminate or metal overheads. Include wardrobe if possible. Three h Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1de Premier * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide overheads and wardrobe if possible. Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A1ef Expansion * Location: Private Office Remarks: Consult with RED+F for typical layouts in laminate. Provide overheads and wardrobe if possible. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 198 2024 F A2 LECTERNS Custom Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2a Custom * Location: Lecture Hall / Auditorium Remarks: Consult with AV/MCIT and RED+F for lectern design and drawings. Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2b Summit * Location: Seminar / Multipurpose Room Remarks: Height adjustable lectern; Consult with AV/MCIT and RED+F for lectern requirements and preferred model. Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2c High Tech Lectern / Case * Location: Seminar / Multipurpose Room Remarks: Consult with AV/MCIT and RED+F for lectern requirements and preferred model. Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2d Thesis Mobile * Location: Seminar / Multipurpose Room Remarks: Consult with AV/MCIT and RED+F for lectern requirements and preferred model. F B2 LECTERNS (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF A2eb High Tech Lectern / Column * Location: Seminar / Multipurpose Room Remarks: Consult with AV/MCIT and RED+F for lectern requirements and preferred model. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 199 2024 B. PREFAB CASEWORK In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical prefabricated casework used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize casework selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to casework:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F B1 Prefab Casework F B2 Casework Hardware F B1 PREFAB CASEWORK Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1a Ethospace * Location: Nurse / MA Station Remarks: OFS Carolina Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1ab Mile Marker * * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing / Exam Room / Patient Room / Family Lounge / Waiting Area / Pantry / Coffee Station / Lactation Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System. Provide w/ Elkay undermount ADA sink ELUHAD131645PD, paddle handle faucet B5R w/ 3.5” gooseneck, built in paper towel disp Bobrick B 318, concealed glove box holder, Euro soft close hinges, LCK1 lock with specific lock key, and “crest” pull in luster grey. Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 200 2024 Dirtt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1bc Dirtt Casework * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing / Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1d Mora * Location: Gown Waiting / Dressing / Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. Groupe Lacasse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF B1ce Neocase * Location: Exam Room / Patient Room Remarks: Clinical Space Millwork System Provide only if custom millwork is not a viable option. F B2 CASEWORK HARDWARE Custom Model / Finish Clinical Non ClinicalFB2a (Image shown for reference only) Integral * * Location: Casework Remarks: Custom finger pull integral to casework drawer / door front NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 201 2024 Berensen (or Similar) Model / Finish Clinical Non ClinicalFB2b Bravo Finger Pull * * Location: Casework Remarks: Finger pull for cabinet drawers and doors; lengths and finishes vary Hafale (or similar) Model / Finish Clinical Non ClinicalF B2ca Veranda Bar Handle #117.05.600/ #304 Stainless Steel * * Location: Casework Remarks: 3.78” hole spacing, 5.74” length, 1.45” depth, 0.55” thickness NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 202 2024 C. WORKSTATIONS In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone Health spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical workstations used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager and the Design Studio to finalize workstation selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to workstations:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Locate workstations adjacent to columns or walls to reduce core drilling for power/data.  Conceal all whips when connecting workstations.  Coordinate power/data locations with undercounter pedestal files, etc.  Convenience outlets should be accessible above the worksurface.  Vertical storage is preferred to overhead storage. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. F C1 WORKSTATIONS Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1a Answer * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1b Canvas * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 203 2024 Teknion Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1bc Leverage * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. F C1 WORKSTATIONS (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Three h Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1cd Multistations+ * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. Laminate only. CBR Model Clinical Non ClinicalF C1de Standard * Location: Open Work Area Remarks: Consult with RED+F for approved finishes and typical layouts. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 204 2024 D. TABLES In order to create and maintain a consistent brand and allow appropriate maintenance at NYU Langone spaces, specific furniture and accessory items are used. The list below will give the A/E Team a sense of the typical tables used at NYU Langone facilities. It is the Architect’s responsibility to select items that are code compliant and appropriate for the capital project based on the type of space and end user needs. The Architect and Interior Designer shall consider specifying existing building specific standards provided they are in line with these Design Guidelines. Architects shall coordinate with the RED+F Project Manager, NYU Langone AV/IT and the Design Studio to finalize table selections. The images shown are for illustrative purposes only and may not be a reflection of a project’s final specification. Please note the following requirements as they pertain to tables:  All substrate shall be formaldehyde free.  Table selection must be coordinated with the NYU Langone AV/IT team. Any proposed alternates must be similarly vetted.  Coordinate power/data troughs and core drill requirements with the NYULH Furniture Dealer, Architect or NYU Langone AV/IT.  Plug in tables in public areas must be UL approved and have USB and outlet options.  Occasional tables in public areas must be provided with power and data.  Furnishings for In Patient Rooms have been evaluated by Nursing, Epidemiology, Facilities Operations, Environmental Services, Rehabilitation Medicine and Energy & Sustainability. All proposed alternates must be similarly vetted. Cost saving Alternatives: The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if items identified as Cost saving Alternatives shall be allowed on their project. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. The product specifications included in this subsection are organized by type as follows: F D1 Conference Tables with Integrated Technology F D2 Conference Tables without Power F D3 Self Check in Tables (where built in counter is not feasible) F D4 Height Adjustable Bases F D5 Training Tables F D6 Café Tables F D7 Occasional Tables with Power / USB Outlets F D8 Occasional Tables without Power F D9 Patient Tables NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 205 2024 F D1 CONFERENCE TABLES WITH INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1a Trace * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Typical table approved for NYU Langone Health; Floor stub ups to be noted as “VIF”. Final location to be identified in field by NYULH Furniture Dealer. Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1b a.k.a. wall * Location: Conference Room / Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Top and base ordered separately. Bullnose end for top available. Coordinate base location with power and data feeds. Provide ganging kit to attach table to credenza/wall assembly unit. Salamander Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1c Unifi Huddle * Location: Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coordinate finish selection with RED+F. Salamander Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D1d Unifi Huddle Lite * Location: Discussion Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coordinate finish selection with RED+F. Notes: 1. Conference Rooms with occupancy of 12 or more persons require a trash/recycling credenza. Refer to the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 206 2024 F D2 CONFERENCE TABLES WITHOUT INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2a Convene * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Floor stub ups to be noted as “VIF”. Final location to be identified in field by NYULH Furniture Dealer. Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Coalesse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2b SW1 * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2c Elite * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. F D2 CONFERENCE TABLES WITHOUT INTEGRATED TECHNOLOGY (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2d Universal * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 207 2024 Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D2e Everywhere * Location: Conference Room Remarks: Coordinate power and data requirements with MCIT. Notes: 1. Conference Rooms with occupancy of 12 or more persons require a trash/recycling credenza. Refer to the Recycling Program subsection of these Design Guidelines for additional information. F D3 SELF CHECK IN TABLES (where built in counter is not feasible) Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D3a Avelina * Location: Self Check in Kiosks Remarks: Permitted for self check in kiosks only when built in millwork counter is not feasible (Approval by RED+F required). Single station: 30”w x 20”d x 34”h w/ 1x PP1 DC* Double station: 60”w x 20”d x 34” w/ 2x PP1 DC* Triple station: 90”w x 20”d x 34”h w/ 3x PP1 DC* * PP1 DC power/data accessories shall be nickel finish, inclusive of female/female data port, and located 4” o.c. from back of table, 15” o.c. from either end of table, and 30” o.c. between units where more than 1 is provided. F D4 HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE BASES Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4a Ology * Location: Workstation Remarks: Worksurface height range is 22.6” 48.7”. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 208 2024 Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4b Renew * Location: Workstation Remarks: Worksurface height range is 22” 48”. Electric extended. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. F D4 HEIGHT ADJUSTABLE TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Gen2 Office Furniture Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4bc Gen2 Up * Location: Workstation Remarks: Work surface height range is 25 50”. 1” leveling glides can add up to 3 3/4” of adjustment. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. Worksurface not included. Humanscale Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4cd Float * Location: Workstation Remarks: Pneumatic, power not required. Worksurface not included. Humanscale Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D4de Efloat Go 2.0 * Location: Workstation Remarks: Accommodates worksurfaces 48” 72” long x 24” 30" deep. Power required. Coor’d outlet location w/ power cord length. Worksurface not included. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 209 2024 F D5 TRAINING TABLES Nucraft Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5a Fleet * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Nesting training tables available with optional ganging connectors, variety of table leg configurations and power/data accessories. Halcon Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5b Skill * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Nesting training tables available with optional ganging connectors, variety of table leg configurations and power/data accessories. F D5 TRAINING TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Senator / Allemiur Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5c Array * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: Rectangular C Leg, flip top table Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D5d Flirt * Location: Training Room / Multipurpose Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 210 2024 F D6 CAFÉ TABLES Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6a Atlantis Series Table & Disc w/ Cover base * Location: Cafeteria / Public Spaces / Administrative Spaces Remarks: Spec with Krystal Cast for Cafeteria / Public Spaces. Spec with formica for Administrative use. Coor’d edge detail w/ RED+F. F D6 CAFÉ TABLES (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Herman Miller Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6b Everywhere * Location: Cafeteria / Public Spaces / Administrative Spaces Remarks: Leland Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6bc M2 * Location: Staff Lounge / Cafeteria Remarks: Steelcase Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D6cd Universal * Location: Staff Lounge / Administrative Spaces Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 211 2024 F D7 OCCASIONAL TABLES (WITH POWER / USB OUTLETS) Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D7a Adler Drum * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Spec with side power/data port installation only. Must spec mouse hole when plugging into wall outlet. Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Stainless Steel Outlet: COV 2US V Black Outlet: COV 2UB V Gloss White Outlet: COV2UW V Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D7b Abbott Cube * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Spec with side power/data port installation only. Must spec mouse hole when plugging into wall outlet. Spec plinth for use with floor outlet. Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Stainless Steel Outlet: COV 2US V Black Outlet: COV 2UB V Gloss White Outlet: COV2UW V F D8 OCCASIONAL TABLES WITHOUT POWER Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8a Chance * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top surface to be either Corian or wood. Spec at 23” or 27” high. Studio TK Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8b Envita * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as task / occasional tables and square / rectangle coffee table. Top surface to be either Corian or wood. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 212 2024 Studio TK Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8c Bevy * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as occasional and laptop table. Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8d Quiet * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as square, rectangular or round task / occasional or coffee tables. Top surface to be either Corian, back painted glass or wood. F D8 OCCASIONAL TABLES WITHOUT POWER (COST SAVING ALTERNATIVES) Krug Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8ec Faeron * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Available as side and coffee table. For Lactation Rooms provide side table with solid surface top and wood base to match approved Krug Faeron Lounge Chair (Highback). Arcadia Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8fd Flirt Occasional Table * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Available as side and coffee table Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8ge Adler Drum * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 213 2024 Nevins Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8hf Abbott Cube * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: Top shall be wood, solid surface, quartz or resin. Coalesse Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8ig Await * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Bernhardt Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8j Quiet Laptop * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Muuto Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8k Relate Side Table * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Davis Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8l Q6 Laptop * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 214 2024 Davis Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8m Lift * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Height adjustable laptop table Koleksiyon Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8nh Bremen * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area / Lactation Room Remarks: Peter Pepper Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D8oi Pickup * Location: Lobby / Waiting Area Remarks: 23” high portable and stackable table F D9 PATIENT TABLES Kimball Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9a Sanctuary * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Bedside table with Corian top. Spec with one locked drawer and unlocked cabinet door below. Cabinet door is handed. Specify left or right opening. Kwalu Model Clinical Non ClinicalF D9b Auburn * Location: Patient Room Remarks: Bedside table with Corian top. Spec with one locked drawer and unlocked cabinet door below. Cabinet door is handed. Specify left or right opening. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines FURNITURE Real Estate Development and Facilities 215 2024 Stryker Model Clinical