took place November 5 to 7 in Chicago, Illinois, and virtually, Dr. Hochman presented the interim results of ISCHEMIA-EXTEND on behalf of the research group. After a median follow-up of 5.7 years, the researchers found that initial invasive management compared with initial conservative management resulted in no difference in all-cause mortality, but there was a lower risk of cardiovascular mortality and higher risk of non-cardiovascular mortality. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” “The previously observed excess of non-cardiovascular mortality with initial invasive strategy persisted,” Dr. Hochman says. “These findings provide important evidence for whether to add invasive management to guideline-directed medical therapy.” What Lies Ahead Dr. Hochman emphasizes that these findings are consistent with prior randomized trials of revascularization versus medical therapy alone, which have reported similar rates of all-cause mortality between groups. Next, the researchers will continue to follow surviving participants into 2025 for a projected median of approximately 10 years to increase the precision around these mortality estimates. “We believe these data will add to the evidence base for shared decision-making between patients and their physicians,” Dr. Hochman explains. “Providers should engage in shared decision-making with patients to discuss treatment preferences.” Judith S. Hochman, MD, the Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, is considered one of the world’s leading cardiovascular clinical trialists. She has led numerous international studies on the management of ischemic heart disease and the pathophysiology and management of cardiogenic shock. Guiding Patients Through Oocyte Cryopreservation James A. Grifo, MD, PhD , has devoted a large part of his career to advancing planned oocyte cryopreservation, allowing women to postpone childbearing whilst maintaining the potential of having a biological child. Nationally renowned as an expert on reproductive endocrinology, Dr. Grifo is convinced of the promise of this fertility preservation technique. Here, he discusses how the approach has evolved and how specialists at the center are helping patients decide if the procedure is right for them. Progress Over Decades Cryopreservation techniques have advanced over the past three decades, leading to higher success rates. What are the latest numbers and recommendations? Dr. Grifo: Despite the growing demand, outcome data are scarce. We estimate that cryopreserving 20 or more mature oocytes under 38 years of age provides a 70 percent chance of live birth . The primary factors for success are age, oocyte quantity, and number of oocyte cryopreservation cycles. Younger age is linked with the retrieval of more oocytes and a higher chance of live birth. While there is no consensus on the ideal age for oocyte cryopreservation, we usually recommend cryopreserving oocytes before 35 years of age. Beginning the process older often necessitates more oocytes—therefore more oocyte cryopreservation cycles. “We cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals.” We have seen patients have successful deliveries after freezing eggs at ages up to 43, though success rates decline after the age of 39. In general, the possibility of success for a 41-year-old is low, and while we offer the procedure to those over 41, we don’t encourage it. In terms of oocyte quantity, we cannot simply say that 20 or 30 oocytes is enough—even for young women. The optimal number of oocytes changes for each patient based on their personal family-building goals. Patients should also be informed that completing multiple oocyte cryopreservation cycles increases the chances of live birth, even when a reasonable number of oocytes are obtained from the first cryopreservation cycle. Psychological Considerations Weighing the pros and cons can be challenging for patients. What are some key considerations and how do you guide patients through the process? The decision to pursue oocyte cryopreservation is a difficult one to make, considering the mix of parental desires, financial considerations, time constraints, medical concerns, and even ethical dilemmas. Decision timing is another important factor as a long delay may lead to fewer oocytes, lowering the chances of live birth. Once a patient decides to pursue egg freezing, they may face anxiety related to the process, time requirements, number of oocytes collected, and long-term outcomes. Additionally, the process may be stressful because it can create doubts about one’s future partner or path in life. We acknowledge this stress, emphasizing that it’s experienced by most patients undergoing fertility preservation. At the center, we offer counselling to patients undergoing the procedure, as it can help them to navigate their feelings and stressors, and to develop coping strategies. We also connect patients with therapists, financial advisors, and other resources. Overall Satisfaction When a patient considers oocyte cryopreservation, what are the main reasons for following through versus deciding against the procedure? Are patients generally happy with their decision? Our local data suggests that the primary reasons for not pursuing oocyte cryopreservation were financial and time constraints. However, larger studies are needed to better evaluate the rate of decision regret among women who consider the process but ultimately decide not to proceed. “Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs.” According to national survey data, the most common reason for planning oocyte cryopreservation is lack of a partner, with up to 88 percent of women citing this as their primary motivation. Many of these women want to be parents but have not found the right partner—voicing that they do not want to settle simply because their natural fertility window is closing. Despite the stress of the process, the vast majority— 89 percent —of patients who undergo oocyte cryopreservation say they are happy with their decision, even if they never use their eggs. James A. Grifo, MD, PhD, is director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility and the NYU Langone Fertility Center. He has pioneered numerous techniques in preimplantation genetic diagnosis and preimplantation genetic screening. His research centers on assisted reproduction, with a focus on egg freezing technology. Achieving Mastery in Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery Ted T. Lee, MD , an internationally renowned expert in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery, has joined NYU Langone Health as director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology A past president of the American Association of Gynecologic Laparoscopists and a sought-after lecturer and surgeon, Dr. Lee has contributed significantly to research and advancements in the field of gynecologic surgery, particularly the diagnosis and treatment of endometriosis. Here, he discusses his career transition, the evolution of the specialty, and how to create a culture of surgical education. Embracing a New Opportunity Dr. Lee, you recently joined NYU Langone Health. What drew you to the institution? Dr. Lee: Overcoming barriers and expanding the surgical envelope has been a theme of my career and of my time in leadership. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar, and I’m excited to take on the challenge. At 14 years old, I left my home country to attend boarding school in the United States. This career transition feels similar. NYU Langone is a world-class institution committed to providing the highest quality of gynecologic care. This type of environment appeals to me; I knew it was the right fit. In my new roles, I’ll not only be overseeing minimally invasive surgical services for common and complex gynecologic conditions, I’ll also be overseeing the comprehensive care and fertility-sparing programs as part of NYU Langone’s The Evolving Surgical Paradigm You’ve written and spoken extensively about minimally invasive gynecologic surgical procedures, especially in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Reflecting on this changing surgical landscape, what should the field be thinking about going forward? For the past 20 years, minimally invasive techniques have been widely adopted in surgical practices and have become the standard approach for treating benign gynecologic conditions. Virtually all benign gynecologic conditions, in my view, are now best addressed with minimally invasive techniques. “The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic.” Despite major breakthroughs in imaging and robotics, I fear that there is an overreliance on these modalities in our field. To make an accurate diagnosis of endometriosis, imaging must be combined with a detailed history and physical examination. One must not forget the basics and neglect the art of medicine. It should be noted, also, that the risks and benefits of laparoscopic surgery can vary by the individual institution or surgeon. The success of surgery is not solely determined by the robot; it’s the magician, not the wand, that holds the magic. Mentoring Trainees and Junior Faculty You dedicate significant time to education and mentorship. From a leadership position, what is your approach to equipping the next generation of surgeons with the skills to succeed in their careers? Educating future surgeons and mentoring junior faculty is key to expanding access to high-quality surgical care. The successful operation of a surgical education program is nearly impossible without the support of divisional leadership. At some institutions, securing support for education can be a hurdle, as the financial return on investment for surgical education is not always clearly defined. “Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective.” Few institutions prioritize education and mentorship to the level that NYU Langone does. In my new position, surgical education will be a top priority, with a specific emphasis on surgical anatomy and advanced robotic and laparoscopic surgical techniques. Anecdotally, several of my former fellows now hold leadership positions at major academic institutions across the nation and overseas. They in turn are training the next generation of young gynecologic surgeons. Alone, I cannot achieve my goal of training more expert surgeons. Teaching more teachers is my objective. What thoughts would you share with a peer aiming to foster a culture of surgical education? Cultivating a teaching culture requires a team effort, not the work of a single person. The best way to ensure success is by shifting the departmental culture. The first step is for the leadership to show support and encourage faculty to take part in teaching and mentorship. True success lies in the active participation of dedicated core groups of faculty members. Ted T. Lee, MD, is director of the Division of Minimally Invasive Gynecologic Surgery and chief of surgical innovation for gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He specializes in minimally invasive gynecologic surgery. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication Alerts flagging patients who may benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs) more than doubled prescriptions. TOaST: a Thyroidectomy Innovation Spares Patients Highly Visible Scars Conventional thyroidectomy entails an anterior neck scar ranging from 1 to 2 inches in length—serving as a highly visible reminder to patients of their thyroid disease and a marker to others about their medical histories. Within the 150-year-history of thyroidectomy, surgeons have only recently begun to apply endoscopic tools to avoid the visible scar on the lower neck. Initially pioneered in Asia, these endoscopic techniques include the TOETVA (transoral endoscopic thyroidectomy vestibular approach). “The TOETVA procedure was a milestone in that it eliminated a skin incision and scar from thyroidectomy by putting the incisions inside the mouth under the lower lip area,” says , an endocrine surgery specialist. Dr. Suh was among the first U.S. surgeons to travel to Asia to study this technique and introduce it on the West Coast through a program at the University of California San Francisco. At NYU Langone Health, Dr. Suh is continuing to pioneer the application of endoscopic techniques to thyroidectomy, including a modified transoral approach that can resolve shortcomings of the original TOETVA technique. “TOETVA may have limitations, including the size of the specimen that can be removed through the middle incision without disruption as well as prolonged discomfort at the chin,” says Dr. Suh. TOaST: A Modified Transoral Approach The transoral and submental technique (TOaST), is a modified transoral procedure that eliminates the need for significant dissection of the chin by creating an effectively invisible submental incision. By substituting the submental incision for the central intraoral incision used in the TOEVTA procedure, it can reduce potential for dissection-related complications and shorten the path from the incision to the thyroid gland. article in the Journal of Surgical Research , Dr. Suh and colleagues reported on the initial experience of 14 TOaST procedures between 2017 and 2018. Subjects included five patients with benign thyroid nodules, three with cytologically indeterminate nodules, three with papillary thyroid cancers, two with Graves’ disease, and one patient with a multinodular goiter. The technique was demonstrated to be safe in this series, with an extremely low rate of complications overall and no permanent complications such as recurrent laryngeal nerve injury and neck hematoma. The cosmetic results were outstanding. Dr. Suh’s subsequent, larger experience with this technique confirms the results from this initial case series as well as its broader applicability. “About half of patients in a typical high-volume endocrine practice would be candidates for the procedure under currently accepted selection criteria,” Dr. Suh says. Scarring Not a “Minor Concern” “The idea of a visible scar is not a minor concern,” says Dr. Suh, who is a fierce patient advocate concerning the scar associated with conventional thyroidectomy and the impact it can have on self-perception. Although the TOaST procedure does leave a scar, it is functionally invisible, placed in the submental area that is often the incision site for aesthetic procedures such as neck lifts and liposuction. “There’s a common theme that comes out of my conversations with thyroidectomy patients: It’s not about vanity, but rather about seeing the scar every day in the mirror, reminding of the disease and unavoidably sharing private health information,” says Dr. Suh. He likens investing the extra effort to avoid scarring as analogous to reconstructive breast surgery after a mastectomy, rather than to an elective aesthetic surgery. “The most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Research into patients’ priorities and concerns confirms this idea. In a discrete choice experiment published in Thyroid , Dr. Suh and colleagues found that, while the risk of nerve injury, travel distance, and cost remain the most important factors for patients choosing among surgical approaches for thyroidectomy, cosmetic considerations also influence choices depending on patient age. Younger patients (up to 60 years old) are significantly more likely to choose surgical approaches with no visible neck scar and accept significant trade-offs, including increased out-of-pocket cost, extra travel distance, and even a slightly higher rate of complications. Dr. Suh is wary of overinterpretation of these and similar findings. “Patients may be willing to tolerate an increased risk of complications, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that we should as surgeons,” he says. “Thankfully, this is a moot point because these techniques appear to be very safe. I think the most important takeaway is that visible scars matter to many people, and so it is our duty to respect that by working to address this issue for our patients.” Offering Every Option for Fibroid Care Taraneh Shirazian, MD , a multidisciplinary program dedicated solely to women with fibroid disease, is one of a select few of its kind in the United States. Led by minimally invasive gynecologic surgeon , the group works to offer every option for women with fibroids, including medical management and active surveillance. Dr. Shirazian and her team are also actively engaged in research to improve care and treatment for women struggling with this condition. One recent study from the team, Journal of Minimally Invasive Gynecology , evaluated the relationship between prior treatment and current disease burden in women presenting to the center. The main finding: patients with fibroids who received prior treatment report worse symptoms and a diminished quality of life compared with those who have not yet received treatment. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction,” says Dr. Shirazian. “Many patients are being treated inadequately or offered treatments that do not align with their life goals, leading to dissatisfaction.” The results suggest that those whose fibroid treatment has not been a success can benefit from receiving treatment at a dedicated fibroid center. Symptoms and Treatment Uterine fibroids are common benign growths of the uterus. While some women remain asymptomatic regardless of fibroid size, others experience burdensome symptoms that can include abdominal pain, urinary problems, pelvic pain and pressure, and heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding, Dr. Shirazian says. “Iron-deficiency anemia is a common issue for women with fibroid disease,” she adds. “Fibroid symptoms can greatly affect a woman’s quality of life.” The morbidity of uterine fibroids is underscored by the reliance on hysterectomy as the primary treatment option in much of the country, says Dr. Shirazian. “Because it results in the elimination of childbearing potential, hysterectomy can have a huge impact on overall health and wellbeing,” she explains. “Many women don’t feel comfortable with removing the uterus and can suffer social and emotional distress.” Myomectomy is the optimal surgical option for those seeking to remain fertile, Dr. Shirazian says, while uterine artery embolization and radiofrequency ablation are additional options to alleviate symptoms. In addition to surgery and such procedures, medical management represents another approach to addressing fibroids. This includes evidence-based drug therapies such as newer gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) antagonists, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories, progestin and hormonal contraceptives, and tranexamic acid. “Many women experience fibroid symptoms for years, unaware that there are effective nonsurgical treatment options,” Dr. Shirazian says. Holistic approaches like diet modification, supplementation, and lifestyle changes may also alleviate symptoms and are used as additive strategies at the Center for Fibroid Care. Cases of Treatment Failure A recent study involved a survey of 302 patients seeking care at the Center for Fibroid Care. Of the 169 patients who filled out questionnaires, 42, or 25 percent, reported prior fibroid treatment. Of those patients, 18 reported prior procedural treatment, 8 reported prior medical management, and 16 had experienced both prior procedural treatment and medical management. Notably, the treatment approach did not affect the study’s main finding. Regardless of whether patients reported previous procedural treatment or medical management, they consistently reported elevated symptom severity scores and lower quality of life compared to those who had not yet undergone treatment. “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings. Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support.” “While our sample size was small, we weren’t surprised by these findings,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Women from across the country come to our center to receive specialized treatment and support. Often, patients are not given options that resonate with them and support their life goals.” Expanding Holistic Approaches Ensuring treatment plans are tailored to the individual patient is a priority for Dr. Shirazian and her team. In addition to considering the patient’s symptoms and the size and location of fibroids, the team also takes into account the patient’s fertility goals and access to treatment. “We explain all available treatment options, starting with medications and lifestyle choices, and in more severe cases, surgical strategies,” Dr. Shirazian says. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies.” Another from the team is evaluating a structured intervention, known as the Lifestyle Intervention in Fibroid Elimination (LIFE) Program , to determine whether a lifestyle, nutrition, and exercise program can modify fibroid recurrence in asymptomatic patients who have had fibroids removed via a myomectomy or other procedure. “Our goal is to make sure patients are aware of effective nonsurgical treatments and to keep expanding those options. We are constantly innovating with novel combinatorial strategies that may help patients avoid major surgery,” says Dr. Shirazian. Division of Women’s Global & Community Health Taraneh Shirazian, MD, is an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the Center for Fibroid Care and the Division of Women’s Global and Community Health. Nerve Block Relieves Chronic Vaginal Pain from Pudendal Neuralgia Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions A focused approach treats unmet needs that often fall between gynecology and dermatology practice. Genetic Testing in Gynecologic Cancer: Lowering the Systemic Barriers to Access Oncologist and clinical trials leader Dr. Bhavana Pothuri discusses the need to universalize next-generation sequencing. Affirming All Gender Identities Through Pregnancy An expert in transgender pregnancy discusses progress and best practices for inclusive care. Remote Monitoring Improves Outcomes in Diabetes During Pregnancy Using remote monitoring technology for diabetes in pregnancy reduces pregnancy and newborn complications. Reducing the Uncertainties in Acromegaly Treatment Investigators at the , director of pituitary diseases, are focused on reducing the gap between symptom onset and management of acromegaly. As time to biochemical control is a main determinant of morbidity and mortality, Dr. Agrawal says minimizing management delays would go a long way toward improving outcomes for this rare disease. One product of this effort—a literature review co-authored by Dr. Agrawal—reports that cavernous sinus invasion, large tumor size, and high growth hormone levels are predictive of incomplete remission following tumor resection. Published in Pituitary , the findings may help propel a more personalized approach to patient care for this rare disease. “While surgery is largely curative, about 40 to 50 percent of patients with acromegaly require the continued support of medication for the rest of their lives,” Dr. Agrawal says. “The question is: Which medication is the best for a certain patient?” Predictors of Poor Surgical Remission To determine factors predictive of remission, the researchers identified 77 publications describing outcomes of transsphenoidal selective adenomectomy. Most represented single-center, retrospective studies. Cavernous sinus invasion arose as the strongest preoperative predictor of poor surgical remission, followed by high growth hormone levels. “Aggressive tumors or those that had bony invasion almost always required medical therapy post-surgery,” Dr. Agrawal explains. In contrast, low levels of growth hormone in the postoperative period were a robust predictor of durable remission. These and other prognostic factors, Dr. Agrawal notes, could be incorporated into machine learning models for predicting incomplete response to surgery, which could be used to minimize delays in medical management and further personalize post-surgery treatment. Optimizing Medical Management While currently, it can take months for a particular medication to be deemed ineffective and treatment to be modified, Dr. Agrawal and colleagues are pursuing ways to more precisely understand which patient groups are likely to respond to a given therapy. Toward this goal, the team is helping enroll patients in the national Chiasma Management of Acromegaly ( MACRO ) registry—the first registry for acromegaly in the U.S.—which aims to develop new oral therapies for patients experiencing challenges with exisiting treatment options. “It’s all about customizing the medications to the patients. That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” “Because all the tumors in acromegaly behave differently, it’s all about customizing the medications to the patients,” Dr. Agrawal says. “That is where treatment for acromegaly is headed.” Improving Early Diagnosis The researchers note that patients with acromegaly commonly experience symptoms for five to 10 years before finally being diagnosed with a pituitary tumor. To improve diagnosis, Dr. Agrawal also spends time educating other providers on the slow, insidious onset of the disease. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key.” As the subtle symptoms of acromegaly include carpal tunnel syndrome, sleep apnea, and dental anomalies, Dr. Agrawal says many of her referrals come from neurology, pulmonology, and dentistry. “The sooner you pick up the disease, the better the outcomes, and for that, education is key,” Dr. Agrawal says. In addition, NYU Langone Health has hosted a well-attended, virtual Acromegaly Patient Education Day to help patients with acromegaly, their family and friends learn more about the condition. Endocrinology, Neuroendocrinology Nidhi Agrawal, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of medicine and director of pituitary diseases at the Pituitary Center. She specializes in neuroendocrinology and the treatment of pituitary disorders. Extending the Treatment Window for Open Distal Radius Fractures The study found no significant increase in risk when comparing patients who have surgical treatment for an open distal radius fracture within 24 hours of injury with those treated after 24 hours. Adapted From: Azad A, et al. Is Time Truly of the Essence? Outcomes of Open Distal Radius Fracture Management. Poster presented at the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting. March 2023. Las Vegas, NV. Within orthopedics, open fractures have long been viewed as a surgical emergency, irrespective of location, patient characteristics, or the mechanism of injury. After an open distal radius fracture (ODRF), for example, orthopedic surgeons have typically advised urgent irrigation, debridement, and operative fixation. However, a retrospective analysis led by investigators at NYU Langone Health—the largest of its kind—challenges these practices. The study, which was named the best hand and wrist paper at the 2023 American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) Annual Meeting, finds delaying treatment for an ODRF injury beyond 24 hours does not yield a greater risk of postoperative complications. Age, energy and mechanism of injury, or fracture grade doesn’t alter the outcome in any statistically significant way either. “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures. There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius.” “The value of this study is that it allows us to start thinking much more scientifically about open fractures,” says senior author , co-director of the multidisciplinary . “There’s a world of difference between an open femur and an open distal radius. We can’t think of them and treat them the same way. What’s good for one might not be good for the other, and vice versa.” The study, which included 94 patients presenting with an ODRF injury over a six-year period, analyzed the rate of postoperative complications, including surgical site infection, revision irrigation and debridement, delayed soft tissue healing, loss of reduction, and nonunion and malunion. A follow-up national database study by the research team, still underway, has so far pointed to the same conclusions. Dr. Hacquebord says that similar complication rates regardless of time to treatment have important implications for resource allocation. “What would be better: for a patient to go urgently to the operating room in the middle of the night with a surgeon who is not a specialist in the area or to be taken to the operating room by a surgeon who is a specialist in the area at a time that’s convenient for the patient?” he says. “I think the latter is much better patient care. That’s what we’ve shown, and people overall have been very excited by our results.” New Radiographic Protocol Reduces Pediatric X-Rays When a child arrives in an emergency department or urgent care with a suspected fracture, the location of that injury isn’t always immediately clear and the child is commonly evaluated with multiple X-rays. Patients and their families, however, have often told pediatric orthopedic surgeon Jody Litrenta, MD , about the stress of repeated imaging and long visits. “I started to think that we could be more specific about the way we’re evaluating kids with injuries,” Dr. Litrenta says. In particular, she began wondering how to make the process more streamlined and effective. study in the Journal of Pediatric Orthopaedics , she and colleagues at NYU Langone Health describe a simple radiographic protocol that successfully reduces the overall number of X-rays needed to thoroughly evaluate suspected fractures without missing any injuries. “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough. These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” “We don’t want to be the doctor that didn’t do enough,” Dr. Litrenta says. “These results validate that a workup based on the protocol is appropriate.” Playground Injuries For their study, the researchers first conducted a retrospective chart review of 495 cases of suspected fracture in pediatric patients. “We wanted to see what kinds of injuries we were getting and what the current practice was,” she says. Based on the data, the team created and distributed a simplified decision aid to help emergency room physicians and consulting residents think through when another X-ray is or isn’t necessary. “There’s an idea that you need to X-ray the joint above and below the apparent injury. This is something that we do very often in a high-energy trauma when we’re concerned that in addition to a tibial shaft fracture, maybe there’s an injury in the knee or ankle,” Dr. Litrenta says. “But in kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” “In kids with the lower-energy, playground injuries that we typically see here at NYU Langone, it’s generally safe to focus on one fracture area and not expand that.” The protocol’s three basic tenets include evaluating an injury with at most two contiguous areas of radiographs, limiting the screening for secondary fractures except for children with elbow injuries, and not repeating or obtaining additional imaging without a clear clinical concern. X-Ray Reductions To assess the new protocol, the team evaluated its performance on an additional 333 pediatric injuries. Main outcome measures included the final diagnosis, total number of X-rays, number of anatomic areas imaged, visit length, and time for additional trips to radiology. Crucially, the team found that the protocol still allowed for a comprehensive assessment that didn’t miss any injuries. It also yielded a significant reduction in overall X-rays, especially for elbow injuries (Figure 1), and in X-rays for patients who had arrived with outside imaging. “Importantly, we saw that if those X-rays were negative, continuing on the hunt and sending the patient back for additional X-rays wasn’t helpful,” Dr. Litrenta says. Figure 1. The implementation of a simple radiographic protocol yielded significant reductions in the number of pediatric patients requiring 3 or more X-rays to evaluate suspected fractures of the ankle, tibia, forearm/wrist, and elbow. Adapted From: Schlacter JA, et al. J Pediatr Orthop. 2023;43(1):61-64 The researchers didn’t see a significant reduction in the length of emergency department visits, perhaps due to other limiting factors related to the administration of anesthesia and required observation times. Dr. Litrenta also cautions that car accident injuries and concerns about non-accidental trauma or abuse generally require more thorough X-ray evaluations. For low-intensity injuries, though, the protocol proved its ability to reduce imaging with no loss in diagnostic rigor. “For the typical trauma that we see, it’s a good way to say that this is what you should start with and feel confident that you don’t have to escalate,” Dr. Litrenta says. Jody Litrenta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics who specializes in pediatric orthopedic surgery and treats patients with scoliosis, limb abnormalities, fractures, Blount disease, and clubfoot. Testing Pulsed Field Ablation for Treating Atrial Fibrillation A new energy source for catheter ablation could radically alter the field. Hearing the Heartfelt Needs of ACHD Patients A growing population needs support beyond standard cardiac care. Unmasking a Rare Complication of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy Resembling Takotsubo syndrome, this life-threatening set of symptoms requires rapid and much different treatment. The Future of the Total Artificial Heart After decades of research, is there a permanent artificial heart on the horizon? Artificial Heart Implant Followed by Heart-Kidney Transplant in a Patient with Amyloidosis A life-saving effort entailed two dauntingly complex surgeries—and a team of over 100 clinical specialists. Leadless Pacemakers Promise to Shape Future of AV Synchrony Leadless pacemakers are a novel technology designed to overcome the complications and adverse effects associated with conventional transvenous pacemakers. The devices have been shown to be safe , with a low risk of both short- and long-term complications and high rates of successful implantation. “Leadless pacing is the future of pacemaker technology with the potential to transform the lives of patients with bradyarrhythmias,” says A national leader in the treatment of arrhythmias with the new technology, Dr. Chinitz helped lead the MARVEL 2 study that evaluated the performance of a leadless ventricular pacemaker with automated, enhanced accelerometer-based algorithms that provide atrioventricular (AV) synchronous pacing. Research suggests that patients with pacemakers that maintain AV synchrony appear to have less morbidity and mortality than patients with ventricular stimulation alone. Additional benefits to AV synchrony include avoidance of pacemaker syndrome, improvement of quality of life, and improvement in left ventricle stroke volume and function. Decades of Progress For several decades, cardiac pacing has been exclusively performed by systems consisting of subcutaneously implanted pulse generators with one or more transvenous leads. A major limitation of traditional pacing systems is the potential for complications attributable to the pacemaker pocket or leads, including hematoma, pneumothorax, hemothorax, lead dislodgement, lead failure, or infection. While early versions of leadless pacemakers were unable to provide AV synchrony, modern leadless devices are designed to overcome pocket- and lead-related complications , with reports of an approximate 60 percent reduction in complications compared with transvenous pacemakers. “Encouraging results from preliminary studies have led to an increased interest in a broader use of leadless devices,” Dr. Chinitz explains. “Despite recent progress, currently available leadless pacemakers only provide single-chamber ventricular rate responsive pacing.” Moving Toward AV Synchrony In collaboration with Medtronic, Dr. Chinitz and his team led the MARVEL 2 study, results from which showed that accelerometer-based atrial sensing with an automated, enhanced algorithm significantly improved AV synchrony in patients with sinus rhythm and AV block who were implanted with a leadless ventricular pacemaker. Building on earlier observations , these encouraging results from MARVEL 2 confirmed an increase in AV synchrony and stroke volume with AV synchronous pacing. In addition, the performance of the algorithm did not appear to have diminished efficacy in newer implantations versus long-term implantations. “The enhanced MARVEL 2 algorithm allowed for AV synchronous ventricular pacing with a leadless pacemaker in patients with normal sinus activity and complete heart block,” Dr. Chinitz notes. Translational Outlook If the early results from the MARVEL 2 trial hold up, Dr. Chinitz anticipates the Heart Rhythm Center will be among the first to adopt leadless pacing technology. NYU Langone is one of the world’s largest centers for the treatment of complex arrhythmias and a pioneer in pacemaker technology. “If implemented in clinical practice, this new