handling units h. Fire Alarm Reset • After a fire alarm shutdown, the system shall automatically restart as long as no safety interlocks require a manual reset. • Unit shall resume operation to maintain last known setpoints prior to fire alarm shutdown. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units i. Flow Control • The unit’s DDC controller shall contain a software based flow control program. The software controller shall receive input signals from airflow measuring stations installed in the inlet of its respective supply and return fan, and totalize, linearize and scale them. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 540 2024 • The flow control program shall match the return fan with the supply fan and maintain the volumetric balance between return and supply airflow by varying return fan speed to maintain a constant differential between supply and return airflow. o For flow tracking systems, return fan differential is maintained by a dedicated static pressure transmitter located in the return ductwork. Return static pressure setpoint is calculated based on the desired differential. • A software bias shall be provided to compensate the return flow for an outside air minimum reset, constant toilet exhaust and constant general exhaust at all operating loads. • The operator shall be able to manually override the flow control program and manually control each supply and return fan. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units j. Flow Tracking Control • In all flow tracking applications, pressurization control shall take priority over temperature control. • The master terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The master terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. • The supporting terminal unit shall track the exhaust terminal unit to maintain a fixed air volume differential between the room supply and exhaust airflows. • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the master terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. • The flow control system shall respond and maintain specific airflow (± of signal) and stability (< over/undershoot) within 1 second of a change in duct static pressure, irrespective of the magnitude of pressure and/or flow change or quantity of airflow controllers. • The flow control system shall use volumetric offset control to maintain room pressurization. The system shall respond and maintain room pressurization (negative or positive) within 1 second of a change in room/system condition. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 541 2024 • The flow control system shall employ highly accurate microprocessor controllers with a minimum 8 to 1 (8:1) turndown to ensure accurate pressurization at low airflows and guarantee the maximum system diversity and energy efficiency. The end to end accuracy of the installed system shall be five percent () over the entire range of the measurement. The master and supporting terminal units are governed by the pressurization requirements as follows: • Negative pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail closed and the exhaust damper shall fail open. • Positive pressurization: the supply terminal unit acts as the master with the exhaust terminal unit supporting via air volume differential. o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. • Neutral pressurization: the exhaust terminal unit acts as the master with the supply terminal unit supporting with an air volume differential of zero (no differential). o Upon loss of electric power or control signal, the supply damper shall fail open and the exhaust damper shall fail closed. The following requirements apply to rooms with multiple tracking pairs: • All tracking pairs shall be controlled via a calculated average of all space temperature sensors. • All terminal units must be maintaining their respective minimum flow setpoints prior to operation of any reheat or perimeter heating control valves. The following requirements apply to rooms with fume hoods: • In a room served by a fume hood, there shall be a wall mounted emergency override pushbutton and local alarm light and horn. On activation of the pushbutton, the fume hood exhaust valve shall be positioned to maximum airflow and the general exhaust terminal units shall track accordingly. The alarm horn and light shall be activated. When the pushbutton is reset, the alarm light and horn shall be de energized and the fume hood shall resume normal operation. • The fume hood exhaust valve airflow shall be added to the general exhaust airflow. The supply terminal unit shall track the sum of the general exhaust and fume hood exhaust to maintain a fixed air volume differential. • On an increase in fume hood exhaust airflow, the exhaust terminal unit airflow shall be reduced to maintain the room’s exhaust flow setpoint. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 542 2024 k. Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Whenever the primary fan for the terminal unit is off, the terminal unit damper shall be fully open. • The terminal unit shall modulate between its maximum and minimum flow setpoints to maintain space temperature. o For constant air volume systems, the maximum flow setpoint shall equal the minimum flow setpoint. The terminal unit shall modulate to maintain a constant flow setpoint. The following requirements apply to terminal units equipped with reheat coils: • The supply temperature setpoint shall be reset to maintain space temperature upon a call for heating when the terminal unit is maintaining minimum flow. • The normally closed reheat coil valve shall modulate open to maintain supply temperature. • For terminal units serving perimeter areas, the normally open perimeter radiation valve shall modulate to maintain supply temperature as the first stage of heating. The reheat coil valve shall modulate as the second stage of heating. The following requirements apply to multiple terminal units serving a common room: • The average of all space temperature sensors located in the room shall be used to calculate the terminal unit flow setpoint for each terminal unit serving the room. • All terminal units shall be at minimum flow setpoint prior to operating any reheat coil or perimeter radiation control valve. The following requirements apply to fan powered terminal units: • A software interlock shall start the terminal unit fan when the primary fan serving the terminal unit starts. • Start command to the terminal unit fan shall be delayed to allow the terminal unit damper to fully close. When the fan starts, the damper shall be allowed to modulate open. l. Supply Air Temperature Control • Supply air temperature control will be enabled when all of the following conditions are true: o Supply fan status is proven on o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 543 2024 o When enabled, the cooling valve will modulate to maintain a supply air temperature control set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air temperature control set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation of any of the following for all spaces being served by the system:  Temperature control: Space temperature vs. the space temperature set point (adjustable)  Dehumidification control: Space humidity vs. the humidification set point (adjustable)  Return air reset: in some applications, the supply air temperature set point shall be reset based on return air temperature o The supply air temperature control set point will range from a minimum supply air temperature set point of 45°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air temperature set point of 65°F (adjustable). o As the supply air temperature increases above supply air temperature control set point the cooling coil valve will modulate open. The reverse will occur on a decrease below the supply air temperature control set point. • The heating coil control valve will modulate to maintain a preheat supply air temperature control set point (adjustable). o The preheat supply air temperature control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point as described in the Economizer Control functional requirement. o A preheat supply air temperature error set point of 2°F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point. o The reheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). o The supply air temperature set point minus the preheat supply air temperature heat gain set point will determine the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o As the preheat air temperature decreases below preheat supply air temperature control set point, the steam heating coil valve will modulate open. The reverse will occur on an increase above the preheat supply air temperature control set point. o Preheat air temperature low limit control shall be operational in this mode as described in the Preheat Coil Low Limit Control functional requirement. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 544 2024 m. Humidification Control • Humidification control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Supply fan status is proven on (Refer to Humidifier Valve Lockout below). • A supply air dew point control loop will modulate the normally closed humidifier valve to maintain a supply air dew point set point as sensed by a duct mounted supply air humidity sensor and the supply air temperature sensor. o The supply air dew point set point (adjustable) will be reset based on the worst case deviation from space humidity to the humidification set point for all spaces being served by the air handling system. o The supply air dew point set point will range from a minimum supply air dew point set point of 30°F (adjustable) to a maximum supply air dew point set point of 50°F (adjustable). o The operator at the workstation shall have the ability to override the supply air dew point set point (adjustable) within the minimum supply air dew point set point and maximum supply air dew point set point. • Humidification control will be overridden and the humidifier valve will modulate closed if the supply air humidity increases above a high limit humidity set point of RH (adjustable) as sensed by the supply air humidity sensor. • The humidifier valve shall be prevented from opening via a hardwired interlock with a current sensing relay used to monitor fan run status. • The current sensing relay shall be wired to a double pole, double throw relay. One normally open pole shall be wired as an input to the DDC unit for fan run status. The other normally open pole shall be wired in series with the control signal to the humidifier valve such that when the fan is off, the humidifier valve shall be “hardwired” closed. • Upon a fan trip, the humidifier valves shall immediately fail in the closed position. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units n. Occupied/Unoccupied Control The system shall operate based on a 7 day programmable schedule resident within the DDC controller serving the unit and adjustable at the operator workstation. The operator shall have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the system from the operator workstation or the DDC control unit. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units: o Operator shall also have the ability to override a starting or stopping of the associated return/spill fan NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 545 2024 o During unoccupied mode, the air handling unit shall not be in operation. The normally closed minimum outdoor air, variable outdoor air, return air, spill air and fan discharge dampers shall be closed. The return/spill fan shall be off. No control signal shall be transmitted to the variable frequency drive of each fan. The normally closed chilled water coil valve shall be closed. Steam humidifier valve shall be closed. o When the air handling unit is off, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return ducts shall be closed. o At the transition to occupied mode, the unit shall start. Prior to starting the air handling unit, all combination fire/smoke dampers located in supply and return air ducts shall open. o When the air handling unit start up is initiated, its temperature control system shall be in operation. When the air handling unit is called to start, its supply fan discharge and return air dampers shall open. A hardwired time delay shall prevent fan operation, allowing sufficient time for the dampers to open. When the supply fan and return fan are started, they shall both run at the minimum speed required to maintain rotation. Minimum speed set point shall be coordinated with the variable frequency drive manufacturer. The start of each fan shall be time delayed to avoid simultaneous starting of fans. After the fan has achieved minimum speed, the DDC controller shall ramp up the speed of the supply fan to maintain its operating set point.  When multiple fans are operating in parallel, all associated dampers must open before any single fan starts. Fans must be actively stopped from free rotation (via DC braking or some other means) prior to start command. Fans must be started together and modulated at the same speeds throughout operation. • Electronic face velocity controller for variable air volume fume hoods: o The system shall operate the fume hoods at a lower velocity set point (when it is safe). • Flow tracking control unit: o The system shall setback air change rate setpoints in unoccupied mode. • Variable air volume terminal units: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. • Constant air volume flow tracking systems: o The system shall toggle between the occupied and unoccupied cooling and heating setpoints. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 546 2024 o. Lead/Lag Control • Lead and standby equipment shall be selectable via BMS command. • Lead equipment shall be allowed an Automatic option which will rotate lead unit based on equipment runtime. o At rotation trigger (set via BMS schedule), the piece of equipment with the lowest runtime shall be set to lead. • Equipment shall be monitored for run status. Loss of run status for lead equipment for 30 seconds shall constitute equipment failure. o A failure alarm shall be generated at the BMS. o The standby equipment shall start automatically. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Headered Exhaust Fans • Pump Sets • Cooling Tower Sets • Heat Exchanger Sets o Parallel mode shall also be available, which shall operate all heat exchangers in tandem. • Headered Air Handling Units p. Fume Hood Control • A UL 916 listed individual fume hood monitor shall be provided for each fume hood, which shall measure the average face velocity at the set point independently of the sash position. Also, provide sash sensors on each fume hood to indicate the position of all fume hood sashes to the respective fume hood controller. Sash sensors shall provide an input signal to the fume hood controller that is linearly proportional to within one half inch of the actual sash position. All sash sensors shall be highly corrosion resistant and allow easy removal of a fume hood’s sashes for cleaning. Sash sensor operational life shall allow a minimum of one million full sash travel cycles. Multiple sash sensors shall be utilized for combination vertical/horizontal sashes. • The fume hood face velocity controller shall maintain the average fume hood face velocity at the desired setpoint using a proportional, integral and derivative (PID) closed loop control algorithm. The fume hood face velocity control process shall be as follows: • The fume hood controller shall continually determine the fume hood’s total open area by monitoring the fume hood sash position(s) by the sash sensor(s) as well as by taking account of any fume hood fixed open areas and the bypass opening(s). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 547 2024 • The fume hood controller shall calculate the required fume hood exhaust airflow necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint over the total open area. • The fume hood controller shall control the fume hood exhaust airflow at the rate necessary to maintain the average face velocity setpoint. • The fume hood controller shall ensure that the fume hood exhaust required to maintain the average face velocity set point is always maintained independently of any variations in exhaust system static pressure or any laboratory room conditions such as the ventilation airflow or room static pressure that could otherwise affect the fume hood exhaust airflow. The following requirements apply to the fume hood monitor: • The fume hood controller shall also interface to the hood interface module at the designated measurement location on the front of the fume hood. The hood interface module shall provide a continuous digital display of average fume hood face velocity, which shall be the true average face velocity as calculated by the fume hood controller based upon actual measured fume hood exhaust airflow and the total fume hood open area. • The hood interface module shall also sound an audible alarm device in response to face velocity alarm conditions and the hood interface module digital display shall change to “LOW FACE VELOCITY” or “HIGH FACE VELOCITY” appropriate to the alarm condition. A “SILENCE” pushbutton on the hood interface module shall allow the user to silence the audible alarm, which shall then remain silent until a subsequent face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an “EMERGENCY PURGE” pushbutton that shall enable a user to increase fume hood exhaust airflow to the maximum amount for a designated period of time as required by Laboratory safety standards. After the designated time has expired, the fume hood exhaust shall automatically reset to a lower level to prevent excessive demand on the exhaust system. The emergency purge mode of operation shall also be able to be canceled at any time by depressing the emergency purge button a second time. The hood interface module shall sound its audible alarm device whenever the emergency purge mode of operation is activated. The silence pushbutton on the hood interface module shall also allow the user to silence the audible alarm, which shall then remain silent until either the emergency purge operational mode is again activated or a face velocity alarm occurs. • The hood interface module shall also provide an audible sash open alert feature that shall caution users whenever the fume hood sash opening exceeds a predetermined amount. The audible alert shall consist of one minute repeating cycle of a series of quick “chirps” that continues until the sash opening is reduced to an allowable amount. In addition, failure NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 548 2024 of a fume hood sash sensor shall also be indicated as an alarm condition on the hood interface module. • Momentary or extended losses of power shall not change or affect any VAV fume hood control set points, operational parameters or stored data. Upon resumption of power after a power failure, fume hood monitor shall resume full normal operation exactly as before the power failure and without any need for manual intervention. Upon a power failure or operational failure within the fume hood controller, the fume hood exhaust air terminal shall be automatically positioned to the fully open (fail safe) position as required by Laboratory safety standards. q. Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • The space temperature of each room shall be maintained by the supply air terminal unit and reheat coil serving the room. • The shared perimeter radiation valve shall be used to satisfy the room which requires the greatest amount of heating. • If any room requires heating, that room's terminal unit controller shall modulate its reheat coil control valve to maintain space temperature set point. The perimeter radiation control valve shall be allowed to operate in parallel with the reheat coil control valve until any room's space temperature is within 1ºF below its cooling set point, at which time, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate closed regardless of the heating demand of the other rooms. If any room's space temperature drops 1ºF below its cooling set point, the perimeter radiation valve shall modulate open in parallel with the reheat valve associated with that room. r. Variable Speed Pump Control • Pump speed shall modulate to maintain differential pressure setpoint. • The differential pressure transmitter, used for speed control, shall be located upstream of the furthest connected equipment served by the pump. • On a decrease in differential pressure below setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate higher until reaching full speed. • On an increase in differential pressure above setpoint, the pump speed shall modulate lower until reaching minimum speed. o The pump minimum speed shall be limited to (adjustable) of its design flow rate. • On a further increase in pressure, the differential pressure valve shall modulate open to maintain system differential pressure. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 549 2024 s. Exhaust Fan Control • When a fan is off, its intake and discharge dampers shall be closed. o All combination fire/smoke dampers located in associated ductwork shall be closed via hardware interlock with the fan. • When the fan starts, a time delay relay shall prevent the fan from starting until its intake, discharge and combination fire/smoke dampers are fully open. o Proof of open damper position shall be provided via end switch with hardware interlock to fan. • For fans that operate continuously, each fan shall be started by a manual command at the operator workstation. • For fans that function to maintain space temperature, fan shall be started via space temperature. o On sensing a space temperature above set point, the exhaust fan shall start. o On sensing a decrease in space temperature to 5°F below set point, the exhaust fan shall stop. t. Fan Coil Unit Control • Fan coil unit shall be started and stopped through the BMS. o Fan run status shall be monitored at the BMS via a current sensing relay. o On failure of the unit to operate, a fan failure alarm shall be activated at the workstation. • When the fan is off, its chilled and hot water control valves shall be closed. • The fan coil unit shall modulate the normally closed chilled and hot water valves in sequence to maintain space temperature setpoint. o On an increase in space temperature above setpoint, the unit shall modulate the hot water valve closed and chilled water valve open. o As the temperature decreases, the reverse shall occur. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. o On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstation. • On sensing a space temperature 5°F above set point, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. On a decrease in space temperature to within ±2°F of set point, the alarm shall be reset. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 550 2024 u. Chiller Control • Prior to enabling chiller operation, respective chilled and condenser water pumps shall start and chiller’s condenser and evaporator isolation valves shall be open. o Proof of pump status shall be via current sensing relay. o Proof of isolation valve status shall be via end switch. • When chiller is in operation, its factory furnished OEM controller shall stage compressors to maintain leaving water temperature set point. v. Cooling Tower Control • Tower fan speed shall be modulated to maintain condenser water supply temperature setpoint. • Condenser water setpoint shall be calculated based on the outdoor air wet bulb temperature plus the tower approach temperature. o Adjustable minimum and maximum setpoint limits shall be available. • All active tower cells shall modulate fan speed in parallel. • If all tower cells are off and condenser water temperature is still below setpoint, the bypass valve shall modulate open to maintain setpoint. • All active fans shall be started and held at minimum speed prior to modulating in parallel from minimum to maximum speed. w. Indoor Air Quality Control • Multiple combination CO2 transmitters shall be installed in the space served by the system and monitored via the BMS. • In addition, a CO2 transmitter shall be installed in the unit’s main return air duct and supply air duct. The output of the installed return and space CO2 transmitters shall be monitored by the BMS and compared to the master outdoor air CO2 transmitter. • The BMS shall activate an alarm if any CO2 transmitter reading is 530 ppm (adjustable) above the outdoor air system transmitter reading. • A DDC software program shall continuously monitor the return and space CO2 transmitters, select the transmitter with the highest reading and calculate a supply air CO2 set point, which shall be used to vary the minimum outdoor airflow set point to maintain a maximum of 530 ppm above the outdoor air system transmitter reading for all return and space CO2 transmitters. • Minimum and maximum airflow set points shall be operator adjustable via the workstation. • The operator shall be capable of enabling/disabling the automatic reset at any time from the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 551 2024 Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units x. Demand Response (for Manhattan main campus only) • EMACX shall be used. • Heating and cooling setpoints for terminal equipment can be adjusted via global command to respond to a demand event. • Global command to send a reduction signal to each equipment based on asset levels. • Global command shall be initiated by an operator. • Global commands shall be isolated per building and per floor. • The project team shall reach out to the site specific NYULH Controls Manager for typical demand response sequencing. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Variable air volume terminal units (both flow tracking and non flow tracking) • Fan powered variable air volume terminal units G. Parts i. Instrumentation a. Control Valves (reference mechanical valves section for further information) General (by Application) • Chilled water valves connected directly to the campus chilled water loop shall be rated for 300 psig LB working pressure. Valves on the secondary side of a pressure break can be sized based on the working pressure of the secondary system. • All threaded valves to be installed with unions. • AHU and H&V unit hydronic heating & cooling coil valves o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Equal percentage o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Threaded o Size >=2 1/2"  Liquid temp. & pressure: <=125psig @<350degF or Steam pressure <=100psig Body: 125 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 552 2024 Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Steam valves o Provide a 1/3 and 2/3 steam control valve arrangement whenever the steam flow rate requires a single valve larger than 2 1/2 inches. Whenever the steam flow rate is such as to require a single valve larger than 2 1/2 inches, provide two (2) valves in parallel, arranged to operate in sequence. o Low pressure (15 psig) steam valves shall provide tight closure at a pressure at least 10 psig higher than the normal maximum operating pressure. o Valve type: Globe o Characteristic: Linear o Seat: Single o Size: <2"  Body: Bronze  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged o Size >=2 1/2"  Pressure: <=100psig  Body: 125 pound cast iron  Trim & stem: Stainless steel  Connection: Flanged  Temp. & pressure: <=250psig @<=400degF Body: 250 pound cast iron Trim & stem: Stainless steel Connection: Flanged o Valves shall have sufficient stuffing box protection to ensure against leakage at the application's hydrostatic head. o Single seated valves shall meet ANSI Class IV leakage (0. of Cv) • Combo valve & actuator for terminal unit reheat coils, 2 & 4 pipe fan coil units, perimeter radiation, chilled beams, and radiant panels o Valve shall be suitable for chilled and hot water service o Characteristic: Equal percentage, via characterized disk o Body: Forged Brass o Seat: Fiberglass reinforced Teflon PTFE o Ball & stem: Chrome plated brass o Pressure rating:  <=1" valve: 600 psi  >1" valve: 400psi NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 553 2024 o Temperature range: 0degF 250degF o Leakage rating: ANSI Class IV. o Actuator:  Return type: Spring  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: Closed  Position feedback: Yes • Combo valve & actuator for chilled water minimum flow, modulating condenser water bypass, and inline valve applications o Valve type: Characterized Ball o Body: Carbon steel o Ball: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 316 stainless steel, blowout proof o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Leakage rating: 1/100 of Class IV ANSI/FCI 70 2 o Actuator:  Return type: Fail in place  Power: 24VAC  Signal: 4 20mA, 0 10V, 2 10V  Manual Override: Yes  Normal position: n/a  Position feedback: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  DeZurik V Port Ball  Jamesbury Corp. R21/23 Segmented Vee Ball  Flowtech or Fisher Vee Ball • Butterfly valves o Valve type: High performance butterfly o Characteristic: n/a o Body: Carbon steel o Disk: 316 stainless steel o Stem: 17 4 pH stainless steel one piece o Pins & bearings: 316 stainless steel o Seat: Teflon o Seal: Teflon o Pressure rating: Conform to application requirements o Connection: Lug o Leakage rating: Valves shall be capable of bubble tight double dead end closure with either upstream or downstream flange removed through the valves’ full rated pressure. o Travel stops: Yes o Acceptable manufacturers and models:  Jamesbury Corp. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 554 2024  Bray  Keystone K LOK Figures 362 or 372 Execution • All threaded valves to be installed with unions. b. Gas Instruments • Carbon Dioxide Combo Sensor & Transmitter by Application: Wall Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. o Unit shall consist of a single wall mounted assembly designed for direct wall mounting or mounting on a standard junction box. o Mount 3’ and 6’ above finished floor. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMW90 o • Execution o Mount 3' and 6' above finished floor. Duct Mounted • General o Output signal shall be 4 20mA for CO2 concentration o Provide one calibration kit to NYULH facility management. • Product o Manufacturer: Vaisala o Model: GMD20 • O2 Monitoring System Serving MRI Equipment Rooms & MRI Rooms General • System to include a 4 20mA analog output. • Oxygen monitoring system shall be a sample draw monitoring system that alerts and alarms when oxygen levels fall below safe limits for human health. • Wall mount, using wall mount accessory and polycarbonate case with wall mounting accessory. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 555 2024 • Tube end shall be positioned near the ceiling of the space being monitored. Product • Manufacturer: ETS Lindgren • Model: OMS • Sample tube shall be made of transparent polyurethane 1/4" (7 mm) in diameter. Execution • Wall mount, using wall mount accessory and polycarbonate case with wall mounting accessory. • Configure two alarms as follows: • User selectable relay contacts • Fault relay for interface with the DDC system. • Tube end shall be positioned near the ceiling of the space being monitored. c. Flow Instruments • Airflow Measuring Stations by Application: Fan Inlet Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application requires the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Transmitter shall be selected based on a span from 0 cfm to upper end of the cfm range plus . • Products o Probe manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation VOLU probe/FI Pitot o Transmitter manufacturer & model: Air Monitoring Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus Outdoor Airflow Measuring Stations • General o This application may require the specification of both the probe and the transmitter. o Probes shall not create a pressure drop in the airstream • Products o Manufactures and models accepted  Accutrol Model IAQ Tek  Air Monitor Corporation Model OAM II NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 556 2024  Air Monitor Corporation Model VOLU probe and VOLU probe/VS w/ Air Monitor Corporation Model VELTRON DPT 2500 plus  Ebtron  Tek Air • Thermal Flow Switch d. Moisture Instruments • Relative Humidity Sensor & Transmitters Combos • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. Product (by Application) • Duct mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMW90 Series • Space mounted relative humidity sensor & transmitter combo o Manufacturer & model: Vaisala HMD60 Series Execution • Sensors serving vivarium and associated support spaces to be installed in ductwork, not in space. • Point Type Leak Detectors • Sensing probes shall be adjusted to 1/8" above the floor. • Placement of the sensing probes must consider the installed floor slope so as to detect a leak from the anticipated source(s). Product • Manufacturer: a. Liebert a.b. BAPI • Model: LT 410 • On trigger of a leak alarm, associated cooling isolation and control valves shall shut while associated fans shall operate. Execution • Sensing probes shall be adjusted to 1/8" above the floor. • Placement of the sensing probes must consider the installed floor slope so as to detect a leak from the anticipated source(s). • Zone Type Leak Detectors General • Select cable length to provide adequate coverage per manufacturer's recommendations. • Install cable in a perimeter or serpentine configuration to capture leak originating from any location in or above zone. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 557 2024 • On trigger of a leak alarm, associated cooling isolation and control valves shall shut while associated fans shall to operate. Product • Manufacturer: a. Liebert a.b. BAPI • Model: LT 460 Z## Execution • Install cable in a perimeter or serpentine configuration to capture leak originating from any location in or above zone e. Pressure Instruments • Pressure differential switches installed in the discharge of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan, which sense discharge pressure, shall stop the fan and transmit an alarm to the operator workstation if the pressure set point of the switch is exceeded. • A separate pressure switch installed in the inlet of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan shall also stop the fan and transmit the alarm if fan suction pressure is below its set point. • Pressure switches shall be automatic reset type. • The fan shutdown shall be operative