Material decisions such as these can either facilitate or hinder a reduction in chemical and water usage as part of the required cleaning practices. Or that adding smart waste sorting stations that cater to the type of activity happening in a space (i.e. research, clinical, administrative, etc.) can ultimately drive employees to practice good recycling behaviors. In conclusion, by using an integrative project planning and design approach that brings in multiple stakeholders from the outset, project teams can more readily discover synergies and areas for true innovation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 367 2024 2. Green Roof and Solar PV Guidelines New York City Local Laws 92 and 94 of 2019 require all new and existing buildings undergoing major roof construction or renovation to have a green roof system, solar photovoltaic system, or a combination of both. The regulation also requires projects to meet new, higher solar reflective index (SRI) requirements. Examples of projects affected include new construction, vertical or horizontal building extensions, and replacements of the entire roof deck or assembly. Even when not required by code, Architects are encouraged to implement green roofs, solar photovoltaics, or both on NYU Langone projects in order to take advantage of the benefits of sustainable roof systems as outlined below:  Help NYU Langone Health achieve its carbon emissions reduction goals  Achieve points under USGBC LEED standards  Improve resiliency and onsite generation options  Lower energy costs either through direct offset or through better building insulation  Reduce the urban heat island effect  Manage stormwater and runoff 3. Sustainable Furniture and Furnishings Guidelines NYU Langone has committed to the Practice Greenhealth Healthcare Without Harm: Safer Chemicals Challenge, which impacts furniture purchasing and design decisions. This goal means that at all purchases of freestanding furniture and medical furnishings1 for any individual project are to be specified without the intentional use of the following chemicals of concern: halogenated and brominated flame retardants2, formaldehyde, perfluorinated compounds, PVC (also known as vinyl), and antimicrobials3. Project teams should discuss with the RED+F Project Manager, RED+F Leadership, the RED+F Design Studio, and the Energy & Sustainability Team throughout the process to meet these guidelines and evaluate feasibility. For all projects, regardless of the level of certification or LEED ratings system being pursued, NYU Langone also encourages the use of locally sourced furniture and textiles, furniture that contains pre or post consumer recycled content, and the use of wood that is FSC certified. Other standards or certifications to reference include the ANSI/BIFMA e3 Furniture Sustainability Standard, SCS certified, and Cradle to Cradle certified. Notes: 1 Furniture and medical furnishings include seating (i.e. chairs, stools, sofas, benches, etc.), worksurfaces (i.e. tables, desks, etc.), built in and modular casework systems (i.e. walled desks with seating), beds (including mattresses), storage units (i.e. cabinets, filing cabinets, dressers, drawers, etc.), shelving (i.e. bookshelves, built in shelves, etc.), panels and partitions, cubicle curtains, and window coverings. 2 Eliminate the intentional use of all flame retardants where code permits. When flame retardant chemicals are necessary to meet code requirements, use chemicals that meet GreenScreen Benchmark 3 or 4 of their equivalent. 3 Triclosan and triclocarban are explicitly prohibited. No other added or built in chemical antimicrobials are allowed unless they are registered with the U.S. EPA under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), and have published data that show efficacy in a hospital/clinical setting measured by a reduction in healthcare associated infections (HIAs) as part of comprehensive infection control measures. Antimicrobials added to materials or products for the sole purpose of preserving the product are exempt. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 368 2024 4. Sustainable Flooring Guidelines Some of the materials and chemicals used in flooring can make it a negative contributor to indoor air quality, leading to a wide range of adverse health effects including, but not limited to, asthma, cancer, and developmental impacts, and promoting less sustainable cleaning practices. All capital projects, regardless of pursuit of requirements for LEED certification or other building rating systems, shall use flooring materials, coatings, and adhesives free of select chemicals of concern as dictated by Health Care Without Harm’s Healthy Flooring criteria (minimum silver level rating) found at the following link: https://noharm global.org/documents/healthy flooring criteria. 5. Bicycle Transportation Guidelines The NYU Langone Bicycle Transportation Policy seeks to foster a bike friendly culture with bike commuter amenities such as parking, security, safety and bike registration. Inclusion of bike amenities shall be discussed with the RED+F Project Manager as well as representatives of the Real Estate, Housing, and Parking and Energy & Sustainability Teams regardless of pursuit or requirements around LEED certification for a project as specified in these Design Guidelines. The Project shall provide adequate bike parking to meet end user daily demand.  Bike Parking and Amenities Indoor Bike Parking When provided indoors, bike parking shall be within secure bike parking rooms for use by approved staff, faculty and students. These rooms shall be accessible through a keycard reader. For fit outs within leased premises, the A/E Team shall follow the landlord’s rules for the management of indoor bike parking/storage within NYU Langone’s own premises. The Real Estate team can advise on a particular building’s policies. Outdoor Bike Parking Outdoor bike parking may be located outside building entrances and exits, in parking lots or garage structures, within secure courtyards or on terraces. NYU Langone’s preference is for outdoor bike parking to be covered or protected from the elements. Bike Commuter Shower Facilities If a project, particularly new construction, can accommodate male/female or a unisex individual shower facility, the A/E Team shall include them in the design. Refer to the Building Accessories subsection for bike rack specifications. 6. Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Guidelines Capital projects involving NYU Langone owned car parking lots and garages shall provide a minimum of of total parking spots to have electric vehicle (EV) chargers installed and ready for use with NYU Langone preferred hardware and software. An additional of total parking spots shall have EV chargers installed and/or be EV Ready with the necessary power infrastructure installed to meet future demand. The A/E Team and RED+F PM shall coordinate related signage fabrication and installation with NYU Langone Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group as part of the capital project. This shall be discussed with the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 369 2024 RED+F Project Manager as well as representatives of the Real Estate, Housing, and Parking and the Energy & Sustainability Teams. 7. Building Energy Efficient Rating Label Guidelines New York City Local Law 33 of 2018 and 95 of 2019 require the display of an energy efficiency score and grade provided annually by the New York City Department of Buildings. This regulation applies to owned properties that are listed on the Covered Buildings List for benchmarking compliance as per Department of Finance records. Consult with NYU Langone Design Studio’s Signage / Wayfinding Group to coordinate location and frame. 8. Related Components or Policies  NYU Langone Health: Bicycle Transportation Policy  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 170: Mercury Elimination Program  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108: Chemical Waste Minimization and Disposal Program  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108a: Hazardous Waste from Contractors (Construction & Building Maintenance)  NYU Langone Health Safety Policy 108c: Universal Waste Management Program  NYU Langone Health: Municipal Solid Waste and Recycling Policy NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 370 2024 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY NYU Langone’s MCIT (Medical Center Information Technology) division is responsible for the planning, design, construction, implementation, and operational aspects of all information technology systems, inclusive of both clinical and non clinical systems. Our mission is to ensure technology systems are deployed in a manner to improve patient outcomes, increase patient safety, and provide state of the art platforms to conduct world class medical research initiatives. MCIT is responsible for all aspects of IT spaces, including data center, BDF/IDF, and TER’s as well as the following IT systems: networking, cabling, telephony, audio/visual (AV), electronic medical record, nurse call, telemetry, end user devices, and real time location services (RTLS). The standards listed below apply to IDF Rooms that are typically found in capital improvement projects. This guideline is a subset of a larger technology design standards document (NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices) and should be used in conjunction with the latest version of that document. The latest version of the NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices can be accessed via this link: https://bit.ly/nyulhsc standards. The purpose of the NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices is to provide specific criteria in the design and planning of technology spaces. It is intended to be used by internal and external project management administrators, project architects and engineers, as well as facility managers. It shall be referenced for specific guidelines, standards and specifications for the design, construction and commissioning of technology spaces and/or facilities. Any deviation from the NYU Langone Health Medical Center Information Technology EPMO Structured Cabling Standards and Best Practices must be reviewed and approved by MCIT. 1. IDF Planning Requirements An IDF is a technology space provided on every floor in a NYU Langone building from which all horizontal services to users are served, including low voltage data and voice services. On a floor, (1) one or more IDF Rooms will be provided, converging IT, AV, Security, BMS, RF, Nurse Call, Telemetry, Public Address, etc., into one room.  Quantity of IDFs A minimum of one (1) IDF per floor is required at all clinical and smaller non clinical facilities. IDF quantities shall be based on the square footage of the floor and outlet density. TIA 569 recommends one (1) IDF per 10,000 square feet.  Location of IDFs IDFs (and BDF Rooms providing IDF functionality) shall be positioned to be within 250 feet of horizontal distance from the farthest outlet point (using right angle measurements). Final locations of all IDFs, including the intended primary path(s) of horizontal cabling and the associated 250 foot rule must be presented to and approved by MCIT prior to the architectural layout being approved by NYU Langone project management. IDF Rooms shall be located on separate sides of the core, however, these rooms shall be positioned to provide maximum coverage to the entire floor. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 371 2024 IDFs located below the Design Flood Elevation (D.F.E.) shall only serve areas within the FEMA defined flood zone. IDF Rooms shall be stacked to maintain a vertical adjacency. Equipment that is not related to the support of the IDF (i.e. piping, conduits, duct work, etc.) should not be located in, or pass through, the IDF.  Room Size and Layout The room size is to be ultimately confirmed by the final determination of racks and cabinets, which must be identified for use by the IT Designer and approved by NYU Langone MCIT prior to coordination with the Architect. A minimum clearance of 36 inches is required around three sides of any cluster of racks.  Rack Requirements Otronics Mighty Mo 20 is the preferred rack. It is 23.75” wide x 30” channel depth complete with dust cover and isolation pad kit. The preferred color is white. Preferred height shall be 8’ 0”, and shall only be reduced based on room constraints.  Unacceptable Occupancies or Uses above IDF’s All use types that involve water supply and removal, such as kitchens, locker room showers, toilets, pantries, etc. shall not be permitted to be located above or adjacent to a technology room.  Horizontal Pathways Space must be established by the IT Designer to account for horizontal cabling distribution, regardless of whether ladder rack is provided or not, as a means of cabling support. Sufficient clearance and access methods must also be included to facilitate future cabling changes. This path shall be presented to MCIT when the IDF locations are being submitted for preliminary approval.  Raceways Penetrating Walls and Floors Where cabling is required to traverse rated walls and/or floors and is not to be routed in conduit, fire rated Hilti Speed sleeves must be employed. Non rated penetrations shall use the Hilti Smoke Sleeve. Hilti sleeves shall not be filled in excess of fill. spare capacity shall be provided for future use. All sleeves which traverse rated walls and/or floors must be properly firestopped, where Hilti is not required or applicable by NYU Langone MCIT. Sleeves and conduits penetrating into technology spaces shall not exceed 4”. 2. IDF Electrical Requirements  UPS Power Refer to NYU Langone Electrical Guidelines.  PDU and Distribution Level Capacity PDU’s shall not exceed of rating. Capacity shall assume a total load on a PDU in the event one half of a circuit in a 2N pair has failed.  Lighting 50 to 55 fc (500 to 550 lux)  Telecommunication Grounding A Telecommunications Grounding Busbar (TGB) must be provided in all technology rooms, mounted at6” below the ladder rack, be connected to building structural steel and an already established telecommunications ground. The TGB is the grounding connection point for telecommunications systems and equipment. This NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 372 2024 should be shown on the electrical plans for electrician to install. The IT contractor shall bond the IDF equipment to the TGB. All racks shall utilize Chatsworth Rack Base Insulator Kits or Ortronics Cooper B line Isolators to create isolation between floor slab/rebar and the metal of the technology equipment rack. 3. IDF’s Mechanical Requirements Refer to NYU Langone Mechanical Guidelines. 4. IDF’s Architectural Requirements  Ceiling Construction No hung ceiling. Any exposed fireproofing shall be encapsulated in an appropriate material. All ceilings shall be painted white. No penetrations or sky lights over IT areas.  Floor Treatment All concrete surfaces shall be erosion and vapor sealed (i.e. oil based paint, concrete coating, etc.). Provide Static Dissipative Floor Tile (SDT) installed as a system per manufacturer installation instructions. Grounding strips shall be connected to the TGB by the electrician. An electrical back box shall be provided to accommodate this connection. All floors above technology spaces shall be treated in the areas of the technology room to provide a waterproofing layer in order to prevent the migration of water to the technology room below.  Fire Rating As required by Code. (Perimeter Wall 2 hour minimum. Interior Walls 1 hour minimum.) All pipes, duct ladder racks, cable trays and conduit penetrations shall be fire sealed at penetrations through rated walls.  Windows Fenestration (i.e. windows) at exterior walls is not permissible.  Finishes Paint over vapor barrier primer/sealer at perimeter walls and paint at interior walls. Coordinate paint specification with RED+F.  Walls Interior walls shall be insulated stud walls with gypsum board finish.  Plywood Backboard Provide fire retardant plywood painted with two (2) coats of fire retardant paint (white in color) on the major wall space.  Doors Where permissible, doors are to swing out and not have a threshold. Doors shall be a minimum 3’ 0” width x 7’ 0” height. All IDF doors shall be fitted with card access with electrified mortise lock with transfer hinge. Doors shall have a fire rating as required by code. 5. IDF’s Miscellaneous Requirements Card readers required on door. Off campus locations require remote access. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 373 2024 Provide minimum (2) two CCTV cameras. One to monitor the door and front rack activity. The second to monitor activity at the rear of the racks. Camera locations shall be coordinated with Security and the MCIT PM. 6. Miscellaneous IT Design Requirements  The A/E Team must collaborate fully with the IT Designer engaged directly with NYU Langone MCIT SC.  IT infrastructure specifications must be integrated into the Electrical drawings to facilitate procurement and installation by the electrical contractor.  Cable trays shall be designed by the IT Designer and depicted on the Telecom drawings. The identified scope for cable tray and sleeves between shall be noted to be furnished and installed by the electrical contractor. Cable trays must be indicated on all A/E drawings, ensuring coordination with MEP systems. "Coordinate in field" is not an acceptable practice.  Cable trays are not to penetrate smoke or fire barriers. Cable trays are to stop at wall with cables traversing through Hilti Sleeve devices, then resume with cable trays past penetration. Coordinate with MCIT SC PM.  All IDFs must have a dedicated pathway back to the BDF and BDF to POEs, which can include a dedicated telecommunications shaft way, sleeves through the floors of stacked IDFs, and/or conduit runs. Quantity, sizing, and routing should be determined by the IT Designer and approved by MCIT SC.  No MEP Services are permitted to pass through the IDF rooms that are not servicing the room.  The IT Designer is responsible for specifying the power and cooling requirements based on the equipment list provided by MCIT. MEP engineers are tasked with designing adequate approved power and cooling solutions in line with the requirements provided by the IT Designer. IT UPS and Cooling shall be connected to emergency power where available.  Electrical drawings shall indicate the UPS and PDUs to be procured. Define IT electrical equipment. Furnishing and Installation to be completed by the Electrical Contractor PRE BID.  Each IDF room must have its own redundant electrical panels equipped with approved surge suppressors.  Provide UPS and utility power to the Active IT racks, with details for means and methods of installations to be specified. Outlet placements shall be included on telecom IDF/BDF part plans as well as the Electrical plans for the electrician to furnish and install.  Coordinate light fixture locations to avoid interference with racks/ladder racks. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Real Estate Development and Facilities 374 2024  Security and Nurse Call panels typically belong in IDF rooms, requiring Emergency or UPS power and data connection. Coordinate requirements with the MCIT SC PM.  Coordinate conduit pathways to building main IT rooms. Architects should include allowances for demolition, temporary protection, patching, firestopping, etc., in the architectural plans.  Define AV equipment credenza ventilation requirements. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SECURITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 375 2024 SECURITY Given its location in the heart of New York City, NYU Langone pays special attention to security in its facilities and operations. In order to bring existing and new locations undergoing renovations in line with our security standards, new security components are required to be installed as additions to existing security systems or completely new installations. Security system design and installation will require varied approaches depending on the Project Type as outlined below: 1. Project Types  Facilities with Existing Security Systems In nearly all facilities that NYU Langone owns or leases, there is an existing security system to which follow on installations will link and we will use that vendor’s equipment for the follow on installation. The vendor of that equipment is the Security Vendor. The RED+F PM and the A/E Team will work with the Security Vendor to develop equipment placement requirements and will meet with NYU Langone’s Security Department at key points during the design and construction process for their review of the security design. Among other things, the Security Department will review the equipment the Security Vendor proposes to use and the pricing. The Security Vendor will work under contract to the construction contractor.  Facilities without Existing Security Systems If the facility is new, there will not be an existing Security Vendor. Accordingly, the Architect shall provide security design services or shall engage the services of a Security Consultant (pre approved by NYU Langone’s Security Department) to provide such services and the Architect will be responsible for the services the Security Vendor would otherwise provide. The project team will work with RED+F’s Project Support Office to determine how to procure the Security Vendor. Alternatively, RED+F may direct the use of an existing Security Vendor. 2. Project Development and Design The following are required milestones for meetings with NYU Langone to determine security needs, develop scope and coordinate final recommendations:  Schematic Design During Schematic Design a meeting with the A/E Team, RED+F’s PM, User Group leadership and any additional stakeholder(s) of the new space shall be held. The purpose of the meeting is to review security needs for the project.  Design Development During the Design Development Phase, the Architect shall provide Floor plans, Furniture plans, Reflected Ceiling plans and Door Hardware information to and meet with the Security Department and Security Vendor at the same time. The Architect will propose for Security Department approval a security system design that incorporates User Group requests, Stakeholder requests, NYU Langone security standards and industry security standards.  Construction Documents During the Construction Document Phase, the Architect (through the RED+F PM) will organize a meeting of the A/E Team, Security Department, and RED+F’s PM to review the proposed security solutions and seek Security Department approval thereof. The Security Vendor will provide the A/E Team with equipment cut NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SECURITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 376 2024 sheets, cabling and rough in requirements. The A/E Team will incorporate this information into the Construction Documents. A final meeting will be held with the A/E Team, Security Department, RED+F’s PM, User Group leadership and any additional stakeholder(s) of the new space to present the final coordinated security design. The decision for systems cabling responsibility will also be determined at this time.  “As Built” Documentation The Architect shall provide the Security Vendor and Security Department with copies of the finalized “As Built” in electronic form acceptable for import into BuildFlow. 3. General Requirements for Security Design The Architect shall follow the security requirements listed below in the design of the project:  Any code issues, such as fire and life safety, that affect security operations must be addressed by the Architect.  Interior Common spaces should not be isolated from entrances or stairs. Consider location of permanent staff in multiple locations within spaces to limit possibility of unoccupied spaces that cannot be monitored. Consider use of interior glazing and other strategies to improve visibility and accessibility. If a security officer post is included in the design, consider sightlines from the seated position.  Security access control and alarm systems on the superblock must be compatible and integrated with the existing system at the NYU Langone Security Operations Center. Systems off the superblock will be evaluated on a case by case basis as to their need to be tied into the existing system or if they can be stand alone and tied into a central station for monitoring and subsequent response.  Cameras are required at all lobbies, laundry rooms, cash handling areas, elevators, stair doors, entrance and egress doors, as well as any other areas as recommended by NYU Langone Health. Final camera locations shall be centered on other ceiling mounted elements (i.e. light fixtures, sprinklers, etc.) and coordinated with NYULH Security, the Security Vendor, MCIT and RED+F Design Studio.  All windows should be lockable.  A/E Team should alert NYU Langone Health to security conditions that are not immediately apparent but would have operational impact, such as emergency egress doors that are on hold opens.  Areas of high security risk generally include where cash, narcotics, or retail operations are planned, as well as areas housing behavioral health (i.e. Psychiatry), Infant/Pediatric, Emergency Department, TBI (Traumatic Brain Injury) or ICU patients. These areas require greater access control, panic alarms and camera coverage. In some cases, specialized systems, such as Infant/Patient tracking and monitoring systems need to be incorporated NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines SECURITY Real Estate Development and Facilities 377 2024 into the design to include emergency card reader override buttons and one button lockdown feature as required.  IDF closets require Lenel security systems and IP camera installed within. Access will be controlled by the MCIT Department.  Exterior Lighting design must carefully consider appropriate light levels without compromising security. Employ “passive” security design strategies such as avoiding dead end spaces and blind corners, and areas that are isolated from foot traffic or out of sight. Consider relationship of ground floor spaces to the exterior for sightlines and access to open windows and doors. Where security officer posts are required, consider issues of congestion, sightlines, ADA compliance and the physical comfort (furniture and HVAC) of the personnel. 4. Related Security Design Guidelines  NYPD has published security guidelines entitled Engineering Security, Protective Design for High Risk Buildings. Where applicable these guidelines are to be referenced and utilized as necessary. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Real Estate Development and Facilities 378 2024 MISCELLANEOUS This subsection is a running list of miscellaneous items that the A/E Team should consider during the Design and Construction process. The information provided includes: 1. Roof Parapets and Guardrail Systems 2. Roofing and Waterproofing 3. Wheelchair Lifts 4. Temporary Interior Construction Partitions 5. Ceiling Type Selection 6. Firestopping 7. Egress Corridor Width Reduction and Storage Cabinet Placement 8. Security Control in Operational Technology Systems 9. Pressurized Rooms 10. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) 11. Refrigerator and Freezer Monitoring 12. Medical / Lab Equipment 13. New Fire Extinguishers, Cabinets and Signs This information does not relieve the Architect or Interior Designer of designing a project that is code compliant and appropriate to the needs of the user. The Architect and Interior Designer may suggest layouts and products not shown in these guidelines if they believe the proposed layouts and products support our mission, design principles, and the design intent of the project. 1. Roof Parapets and Guardrail Systems  All renovation and infrastructure projects on a roof shall incorporate a requirement to raise the existing perimeter parapet, guardrail system or combination thereof, to a height of 42 inches above the finished roof.  Where no parapet exists, a full perimeter guardrail system shall be installed 42 inches above the finished roof.  A horizontal tie off cable system is not an acceptable substitute for a passive guardrail system. 2. Roofing and Waterproofing  All roofs and waterproofing shall be designed with a minimum 20 year warranty.  Roof membranes, coatings and waterproofing products shall be cold apply, low VOC (less than 50 grams per liter) and low odor emitting.  flood testing of roofs and waterproofing shall be specified. A bathtub flood testing method shall be used with water at least 2” deep for a minimum of 24 hours. If the area is large, it can be sectionalized to aid in construction, however, the sections shall overlap each other by a minimum of 5 feet or as agreed upon with NYULH.  The use of torch down or other hot roof methods is prohibited unless specifically reviewed and approved by NYU Langone’s Facilities Management and EH&S. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Real Estate Development and Facilities 379 2024  The following roof and waterproofing systems have been reviewed and used on NYU Langone projects: Garland Green lock Kemper 2K PUR Siplast Paraflex (Note: Siplast Parapro shall not be used unless reviewed and approved by Facilities Management and EH&S due to the respiratory and odor hazards it poses). TQ3 3. Wheelchair Lifts  Wheelchair lifts shall have a min. capacity of 1,000 lbs., which may require a pit.  Wheelchair lifts shall allow for a min. 60” turning diameter, 72” turning diameter preferred.  Ramps are preferred over wheelchair lifts. 4. Temporary Interior Construction Partitions  All NYU Langone interior construction projects, which are not confined to an enclosed room or space (i.e. corridor, etc.) and do not require a rated barrier, shall use the Edge Guard partition system.  The A/E Team and RED+F Project Manager shall require the GC / CM to order this product in advance of start of construction as it may take several days for delivery. 5. Ceiling Type Selection Existing infrastructure in some cases may prevent proper pressurization of specialized rooms. Selection of the appropriate ceiling type can mitigate these issues.  For spaces requiring positive or negative pressure, the Architect shall meet with the RED+F Project Manager and Facilities Operations to determine the type of ceiling construction to be provided (i.e. acoustical ceiling tile or gypsum board ceiling with access panels). 6. Firestopping  Only Hilti products installed as UL approved systems are permitted (unless otherwise allowed in the Design Guidelines).  All firestopping must be performed by certified tradespersons qualified to use Hilti products.  The A/E Team and RED+F Project Manager shall require the GC / CM to retain a certified independent firestopping firm to perform all firestopping work. Making individual trades responsible for firestopping their own penetrations is NOT acceptable.  Firestopping requires a Special Inspection by the NYC DOB and NYU Langone Facility Operations. 7. Egress Corridor Width Reduction and Storage Cabinet Placement  In new buildings and existing buildings to undergo renovation, the A/E Team shall endeavor to incorporate all storage within rooms. Storage within labs shall comply with the applicable building and fire codes and NFPA 45 (latest edition). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Real Estate Development and Facilities 380 2024  Requests to reduce the width of, and/or establish storage in, an egress corridor shall be assessed by a design professional in accordance with the applicable building code (including an occupant load calculation to determine required corridor width) and the latest version of the fire code, reviewed by EH&S and approved by RED+F leadership.  Where corridor width reduction and storage is permitted by applicable codes and approved by RED+F leadership, the cabinets specified shall be non combustible (metal), any viewing panels shall be glass, and the end user shall be informed that storage of flammable/combustible liquids and materials (e.g. chemicals, wood, cardboard, plastic, etc.) is prohibited. Appropriate signage shall be provided in coordination with NYU Langone Design Studio’s Signage/Wayfinding Group. 8. Security Control in Operational Technology Systems  The A/E Team shall follow the latest version of NYU Langone Health’s Guidelines for Security Control in Operational Technology Systems.  It shall apply to all NYULH projects where Operational Technology (OT) systems to monitor and control facility related equipment and systems will be installed, upgraded or replaced.  All OT system network designs shall be submitted to and reviewed by NYULH Information & Engineering Strategy for compliance with the guidelines and industry best practice standards. 9. Pressurized Rooms  All areas listed in Table 7.1 of ASHRAE Standard 170 Ventilation of Health Care Facilities that have a pressure relationship requirement need to have full height deck to deck walls (gypsum board finish the entire height from top of structural deck to underside of structural deck) with all penetrations sealed (inclusive of spaces with a hard gypsum ceiling).  All conduits and back boxes leading out of the room shall be sealed with an approved product. 10. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box): When designing these types of rooms, the following is required:  Doors: For any entry doors that are over 5 feet wide, a hydraulic door closer shall be installed. Door heater wire to be installed on door frame as well as window of the door.  Condensate drain inside unit needs to be insulated as well as properly pitched based on temperature control point. Vacuum breaks shall be installed on piping as required.  Controller: Cold room control panel requires UPS if connected to emergency power to prevent erroneous power trip resets. Local controller high and low limits shall be calibrated and set at the same range as BMS low and high alarms (low low, high high.) Digital temperature recorder needs to be installed in the room control panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Real Estate Development and Facilities 381 2024  Power: All receptacles inside the walk in box require insulation to protect from condensation due to temperature differences between the unit and the surrounding walls. All conduit, wire and control device penetrations through the walk in box need to be sealed on both ends. All power panels and outlets need to be properly labeled. Evaporator fan(s) inside the room requires a local toggle on/off switch at each fan.  Lighting: Emergency light with moisture proof cover shall be installed in all cold rooms backed up by emergency power. All light fixtures shall have a thermal seal.  Condensing unit: Shall have domestic water back up connection (for the purpose of cooling tower shut down for maintenance or heat exchanger service for secondary chilled water.) High and low pressure switches with manual resets shall be installed. Dual pressure switch safeties are not allowed. Water cooled compressors shall have all trim installed on piping. This includes but not limited to pressure gauges, thermometers, balancing valves, strainer, etc. Condenser access needs to be provided on the front and both sides. Top access (above room) is not acceptable. An oil separator shall be installed if the refrigeration lines exceed length of 50 feet. Vibration isolation shall be installed on condensing units. If the refrigeration system has multiple circuits, the automatic switch over shall be shown on BMS graphics. Alarms on BMS shall provide system fail, circuit fail and run time of each compressor. Manual valves with service ports shall be installed on both sides of hot gas by pass or suction electronic valve (depending on application) If there are plate and frame heat exchangers installed, pipe unions shall be installed on supply and return piping to allow for proper maintenance to punch tubes or clean plates.  Password access to configuration page on local controller shall be provided to maintenance shop. 11. Refrigerator and Freezer Monitoring ELPRO is NYU Langone Health’s standard, centralized temperature monitoring system for clinical and research refrigerators and freezers, and any moveable refrigeration equipment. It is not to be used for any other monitoring, such as room temperatures, pressures or humidity.  For Clinical Facilities: ELPRO is required for all Nourishment, Specimen, Medication (including vaccinations) and Breast Milk refrigerators and freezers. For moveable equipment requiring temperature monitoring, such as reagent refrigerators and incubators, ELPRO can be installed at the clinician’s request with approval from MCIT and RED+F Commissioning. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MISCELLANEOUS Real Estate Development and Facilities 382 2024 If your facility is an FHC, Community Medicine or School Health (Elementary/Middle School) site, notify RED+F Commissioning as additional monitoring and reporting may be required. For the Vaccine for Children Sites only, the ELPRO CE Digital Data Logger shall be installed. In addition to the logger, an audible alarm must also be installed. The recommended model is the Health Care Logistics Memory Monitoring Refrigerator / Freezer Alarm, product number 10368.  For Research Facilities: ELPRO is required for all freezers housing research materials rated at 40°C or below, as well as for all Liquid Nitrogen tanks and cryogenic storage. ELPRO can be installed in refrigerators and freezers of all temperatures, as well as incubators, at the research unit’s request, with approval from MCIT and