and responds to patient needs promptly. Assemble O2 (e.g., nasal cannula) and suction set-ups. Provides basic hygiene to patients: bathing, AM/PM care, mouth care, denture care, hair care, nail and foot care, shaving, assists patients with bedpan, urinal and/or commode. Prepares patients for meals including: Clearing overbed tables and placing them within reach of the patient. Positioning patient correctly for eating/tube feedings. Assisting patients by preparing utensils and food items. Feeding patients. Performs and/or assist patient with simple treatments. Remove and reapply SCD wraps as directed by the RN. Assists RN in enema procedures. Collects specimens as directed by RN. Informs RN of any audible clinical alarms such as IV pumps, feeding pumps, ventilators, bedside monitors Assists with moving, lifting, positioning and transporting of patients. Assists with removal and security of patient personal items prior to procedures, as needed. Changes linen in accordance with policy and as necessary. Takes and electronically records blood pressure, temperature, pulse, pulse oximetry, and respiration per care level standard and as directed by the RN. Reports abnormalities to RN. Weighs patients and electronically records on admission, as ordered, and/or as directed by RN. Measures and records oral intake, urinary output, bowel elimination, gastric and other drainage onto I&O record (form or electronic). Calculates 8 hour totals. Empties drainage bags. Performs post mortem care. Performs safety observations for patients on continuous observation or in restraints, per policy and as directed. Reports any changes observed in the patients condition to the RN. Responds to and meets patient/family needs and customer concerns as soon as possible with compassion and understanding. Established effective, caring relationships with staff, patients, family and other members of the health care team. Maintains competence through in-service and educational programs. Attends staff meetings and reviews/signs minutes of meetings not attended.Maintains a safe and uncluttered environment of care in patient rooms including removing excessive furniture, supplies and equipment. Assists with supply and equipment management of patient, procedure and supply rooms per department standards. Maintains cleanliness of utility rooms and pantries as assigned. Performs other duties such as errands, relieving other units, bringing stretchers and assisting other members of the health team, as directed. Performs other duties as aligned with the mission and values of the organization. To qualify you must have a High School Diploma or equivalent Required. Graduate of Certified Nursing Attendant program or minimum 6 months relevant experience. BLS or Heartsaver CPR/AED certification. (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) OR Heartsaver CPR/AED certification (Issued by the American Heart Association-AHA) is required upon entry to the position. Competencies: Working knowledge of English is evident in verbal, reading and writing abilities; other language an asset; Strong customer service and communication skills.. NYU Langone Health provides a salary range to comply with the New York state Law on Salary Transparency in Job Advertisements. The salary range for the role is $48,102.66 – $50,901.02 Annually. Actual salaries depend on a variety of factors, including experience, specialty, education, and hospital need. The salary range or contractual rate listed does not include bonuses/incentive, differential pay or other forms of compensation or benefits. Visit Us View All Locations Inpatient Locations We offer world-class inpatient medical care delivered by a team focused on your health and wellbeing. We deliver the highest quality care in an environment designed with comfort, privacy, and safety in mind. We are experts in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions and injuries that have an impact on the way your body moves. We partner with children and families to provide the most advanced care for children in the New York City area. We are the hospital of choice for adults and children seeking expert inpatient and outpatient care in Brooklyn. We provide the highest level of inpatient and outpatient care throughout our network of Long Island healthcare facilities. Outpatient Locations From the most advanced treatments to access to clinical trials, we offer the latest in cancer care and support. Our experts provide treatments that help increase your mobility, relieve pain, and improve your quality of life. We provide comprehensive, compassionate outpatient care for a wide range of pediatric conditions. We offer an array of primary and specialty care to address your health concerns at one convenient location. We offer personalized healthcare at one convenient location. Our location houses a variety of doctors’ offices and outpatient services. We offer a comprehensive array of primary and specialty care—all in one convenient location. Located near New York City’s Theatre District, we provide the west side of Manhattan with specialty medical care. High-quality, affordable healthcare is available at our community- and school-based locations. View Full Locations Directory You can see a doctor, schedule an appointment, access your medical records, and more using the NYU Langone Health app. Just log in with your MyChart username and password. Learn more about the Centralized Application Container Management Service Centralized Application Container Management Service Questionnaire PDX – Community Based Referral Platform NYU Langone invites you (Vendor) to submit a quote in accordance with the requirements, terms, and conditions in this RFP for available community based referral platform solutions designed to support real time visibility into referral activity and specific case outcomes that are bidirectional between NYU Langone and the CBO, with integration to Epic. This RFP process is your opportunity to demonstrate your strong commitment to partnering with NYU Langone and ensures highly competitive pricing with quality customer support services. This RFP solicits a detailed offering that includes line item pricing as well as a detailed response regarding your corporate profile, services, capabilities, and contract/payment terms compliance. We encourage you to submit a quote that is aggressively priced which will exceed our expectations and influence the consolidation of our Vendors and market share. Additional Questions Due : October 23, 2023, 5:00pm NYULH Answers to Questions Due : October 26, 2023, 5:00pm Proposal Due : November 10, 2023, 5:00pm All Proposals are due by November 10, 2023 no later than 5:00 P.M. EST. Send your complete electronic response via email to: ITSourcing@nyulangone.org with the subject line “PDX - Community Based Referral Platform RFP” Interested parties who need additional information or have questions about this RFP must be submitted via email to on or before 5 PM (EST) on October 23, 2023 with the subject line “NYU Langone Community Based Referral Platform RFP QUESTIONS.” All questions and responses will be shared with all vendors on November 10, 2023. There are no Requests for Quotes at this time. Please check back soon. Schedule a video visit online or call your doctor’s office during business hours. For help finding a doctor, call our physician referral service at You don’t always need to come in to the doctor’s office to see your doctor. Many NYU Langone doctors and care providers offer video visits, letting you video chat with your doctor from home or wherever is convenient for you. Video visits are available for adults and for children of all ages, and are available to new patients in addition to those who already have an NYU Langone doctor. How to Schedule a Video Visit To schedule a video visit instead of an in-office visit, you can find a doctor and schedule online , or log into your and select a member of your care team to schedule. You can also schedule a video visit by calling your doctor’s office during business hours. Video visits are subject to regulations that vary by state. When scheduling a video visit, you must see a provider who is licensed in the state that you will be in during the time of your visit. Most of our physicians are licensed in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, and Florida. Our office will contact you ahead of your visit, or you can call us at , to confirm we can complete your visit. Schedule a video visit or an in-person appointment, access your medical records, and more by logging into the app with your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. What to Expect During a Video Visit A video visit is similar to an in-office visit, but instead of traveling to see your doctor, you can video chat with them from home, work, or another convenient location. Our care providers can assess symptoms, make a diagnosis, recommend treatment, and send prescriptions to your pharmacy. Video visits take place through your NYU Langone Health MyChart account. If you are a patient at NYU Langone and do not have a MyChart account, you can VIDEO: Learn what to expect during your video visit and how to access your visit using the NYU Langone Health mobile app. When it’s time for your video visit, you can join the appointment by logging into your NYU Langone Health MyChart account using the app, up to 10 minutes before your scheduled appointment time. Select the Appointments icon on the app’s home screen to access the video chat with your doctor. Types of Video Visit Appointments Our doctors and other healthcare providers offer video visits across a wide range of specialties. Some examples of appointments that can be held over video include new patient visits, follow-up visits, mental health visits, physical therapy visits occupational therapy visits speech–language pathology therapy visits , and postoperative appointments. VIDEO: Dr. Julie Han, a sports health expert, discusses how video visits allow her to connect with her patients and provide the same high level of care. Video visits cannot be used for appointments that require physical examinations, such as annual physicals or annual gynecological appointments. If you have questions about whether a video visit is right for you at this time, speak with your doctor’s office. Computer Requirements The NYU Langone Health mobile app is only available for mobile devices. If you would like to use a computer instead of a mobile device, please make sure it has a working web camera, microphone, speakers, and high-speed internet connection. Internet Explorer and Google Chrome web browsers are compatible with this service. If this is your or your child’s first video visit, please accept the download for the VidyoWeb plug-in when you start your visit. Cost and Insurance Options Many insurance providers now cover telemedicine services for adults and children. It is your responsibility to verify that you have specific benefit coverage for telemedicine services under your benefit plan. Your doctor’s office can help you to determine if a video visit is covered by your insurance provider, and we also recommend speaking with your insurance provider directly if you have questions. For plans we accept, we collect your out-of-pocket responsibility for an office visit at the time of check-in and bill your insurance for the remaining balance, as we would for an in-person appointment. If your insurance doesn’t cover the balance in full, you are billed for any remaining balance. Schedule appointments, access your medical records, and more by logging into the NYU Langone Health App with your MyChart account. Virtual Doctor Visits a Big Help for Breast Cancer Survivor Video Visits: A Convenient & ‘Good Experience’ for Patient Video Visits Help Woman Regain Wrist Movement After Surgery How Hospitals Are Responding to New Mental Health Trends Brain Surgery & Rehabilitation Save a 13-Year-Old’s Life Virtual Visit Was a ‘Pleasant Surprise’ for Lupus Patient The Neurologist Will See You Now, Virtually We have locations throughout the New York City area. Learn more about scheduling an appointment NYU Langone’s radiology experts provide high-quality, safe imaging services to more than 300,000 people each year in the New York City area. We have more than 230 board-certified radiologists who interpret imaging results for patients and referring physicians; 65 physicians-in-training; and more than 1,400 technologists, nurses, and physician assistants working together to meet the highest standard of care every day. Our experts have access to the most advanced imaging technologies available. Medical imaging is a specialized science that requires experience and expertise, with a focus on each individual patient. We ensure your safety by adhering to guidelines to protect you from unnecessary amounts of radiation. We make sure that you receive high-quality images by using state-of-the art equipment. And, our radiologists specialize in imaging specific types of patients or certain parts of the body, such as musculoskeletal, breast, and pediatric imaging. subspecialties of our physicians , our , and our training programs Refer a patient to NYU Langone for an imaging test. Accommodations for People with Disabilities We accommodate patients with disabilities, including but not limited to those who are blind, have low vision, or have other sensory impairments; those with physical disabilities; those who are deaf, deaf and blind, or hard of hearing; and those who have mental impairments. When scheduling an appointment, please let us know if you have a disability so that we can best serve you. Introducing the First Patient-Friendly Radiology Report Video Radiology Reports Valuable for Patient Understanding Fat Tissue Helps Screen for Invasive Breast Cancer Radiologists Playing Bigger Role in Medical Care Simultaneous PET/MRI Improves Accuracy for Bladder Cancer There are no Requests for Proposals at this time. Please check back soon. Explore a listing of some of the bid requests and proposals related to federal grants, including Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants, that are open for bidding and response. Price-based sourcing selection for compliant bids from approved vendors or new vendors that need to include their qualifications. Best-value sourcing selection using evaluation criteria for approved vendors or new vendors that need to include qualifications. Public Notice Magnet Recognition Program® Site Visit NYU Langone Hospitals was designated as a Magnet organization in 2005, 2009, 2014, and 2019 by the ANCC Magnet Recognition Program®. This prestigious designation recognizes excellence in nursing services. In April 2024, NYU Langone Hospitals is applying for re-designation. Patients, family members, staff, and interested parties who would like to provide comments are encouraged to do so. Anyone may send comments via e-mail and direct mail. Your comments must be received by the Magnet Program Office by April 5, 2024. NOTE: All comments are CONFIDENTIAL and are not shared with the health care organization. Comments may be anonymous, but they must be sent in writing to the Magnet Program Office. AMERICAN NURSES CREDENTIALING CENTER (ANCC) MAGNET RECOGNITION PROGRAM OFFICE 8515 Georgia Ave., Suite 400 Silver Spring, MD 20910-3492 E-Mail: magnet@ana.org For information about a security incident experienced by one of our vendors, Change Healthcare, that impacted its customer data, please read their HIPAA Website Substitute Notice Where innovation meets individualized care. Find an Orthopedic Doctor When to See an Orthopedic Doctor Meet Our Orthopedic Doctors Our Areas of Expertise Pioneers in Orthopedic Treatment, Partners in Your Recovery At NYU Langone Orthopedics, we treat every bone, muscle, joint, tendon, and ligament, whether the diagnosis is a routine injury or complex condition. From medications to surgery, we use advanced approaches—many developed right here—that help you return to your everyday activities. In our orthopedic surgery program alone, we perform more than 34,000 procedures each year. Our locations across New York City, Westchester County, Long Island, New Jersey, and Florida make it easy to access care at NYU Langone, ranked among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics by Should you see someone for that dull ache or sharp pain in your joints, bones, or muscles? Learn When to See Us Patient Story “I feel 20 years younger,” says Steven Sandberg after his spine surgery. “Dr. Fischer did an amazing job.” Orthopedic Conditions We Treat from Head to Toe We draw from our own experiences with movement and injury to provide you with expert care. From common injuries to complex diagnoses, learn more about the orthopedic conditions we treat. Anterior Cruciate Ligament Tears Hand Sprains and Strains Hip and Pelvic Fractures Knee Sprains and Strains Shoulder and Elbow Fractures Wrist and Hand Repetitive Use Injuries View More Conditions We Treat Care for Children, Beyond Bones and Muscles , a part of , families are the focus of orthopedic care. We manage everyday injuries and complex conditions, while supporting your child’s social and emotional needs. Our doctors prioritize nonsurgical approaches whenever possible. When surgery is necessary, we use the most advanced techniques to ensure a rapid recovery and help your child return to an active life. Learn About Pediatric Orthopedic Care Number 3 in Orthopedics U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Hospitals” ranks NYU Langone among the top 3 hospitals in the nation for orthopedics. Cancer Treatment That Preserves Physical Function Our orthopedic surgeons work with the team at —musculoskeletal, medical, and radiation oncologists, specialized radiologists, and reconstructive surgeons—to care for the rarest of bone and soft tissue tumors. Together, we look beyond treatment to prioritize patients’ functional goals and quality of life. Learn About Bone and Soft Tissue Tumor Care Our Areas of Orthopedic Expertise Our orthopedic doctors offer an array of specialized services, programs, and centers to meet all your bone, joint, and muscle care needs. Foot and Ankle Care Orthopedic Trauma and Fracture Shoulder and Elbow Care View More Areas of Expertise View All Areas of Expertise Setting Standards for Rehabilitation Our physical and occupational therapy services are offered through Rusk Rehabilitation, which has a legacy of defining orthopedic rehabilitation standards. Learn About Rehabilitation Services We provide integrated and individualized cancer care for adults and children. Find a Cancer Doctor & Schedule 212-731-6000 Types of Cancer We Treat Pediatric Cancer Care Planning Your Visit Setting New Standards for Excellence in Cancer Care At NYU Langone, our providers offer you personalized, whole-patient cancer care. Whether we recommend tried-and-true approaches, newly approved therapies, or cutting-edge clinical trials, treatment is based on the best-available science and medicine. With locations across Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island, you don’t need to travel far for comprehensive cancer care. Our specialists seamlessly coordinate your treatment for cancer and beyond. From ongoing care for a preexisting condition to support for you and your family, we provide one standard of excellence. Patient-Centered Treatment Starts Here We’re one team—doctors, nurses, social workers, and other specialists—dedicated to your care and a healthy outcome. We’re Here for You at Every Step Cancer Prevention Cancer Screening Centers and Programs Survivorship High-Quality, Innovative Cancer Care Comprehensive, Research-Based Care Explore how Perlmutter Cancer Center’s National Cancer Institute Comprehensive Cancer Center designation ensures you receive research-based care for your unique needs. Innovative Technologies Learn how our doctors combine the latest treatments—such as advanced radiation therapy and targeted immune and cell therapies—with real-time imaging to monitor cancer response. Cutting-Edge Clinical Trials Discover Perlmutter Cancer Center’s extensive and rapidly growing number of clinical trials, which give you access to the most-advanced treatments. Support for You and Your Family Explore support services for you and your family members, friends, and other caregivers, who are a valued part of the care team. Cancer Care in Your Community View our locations throughout New York City and Long Island, where we make cancer care as convenient as possible. Integrated Care Across the Health System From a cancer diagnosis and treatment to inpatient and outpatient support services, access care in our one network, with one electronic health record, via MyChart. The Future of Cancer Care, Today As an NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, Perlmutter Cancer Center provides research-based approaches to cancer prevention, detection, and treatment. Our clinical trials are shaping the future of cancer care and improving access to state-of-the-art, personalized treatments. Designed to advance the science of cancer care, clinical trials offer a chance for a better outcome, especially for cancers that do not respond well to traditional therapies. By combining forward-thinking treatment strategies with the latest diagnostic tools, we monitor the cancer’s response and optimize your care. Why Choose Perlmutter Cancer Center NYU Langone’s Exceptional Approach to Every Cancer Type From cancer prevention through diagnosis, treatment, and beyond, our providers offer dedicated programs and services for each cancer type. We put your quality of life first and consistently deliver the best possible outcomes. Brain and Spine Tumor Center Breast Cancer Center Cancer Rehabilitation Center for Blood Cancers CyberKnife Center High-Risk Cancer Genetics Program Lung Cancer Center Melanoma Services Prostate Cancer Center Survivorship Program Thyroid Program View More Areas of Cancer Expertise View All Areas of Cancer Expertise The Kinds of Cancers We Treat Our doctors offer advanced, personalized care across all types of cancer, including those of the breast, lung, prostate, brain, and spine. When you receive care at NYU Langone, our compassionate providers build our treatment team around you—and your healthy outcome. View All Cancers We Treat The Cancer Care You Need, Where You Need It At Perlmutter Cancer Center, a National Cancer Institute–designated Comprehensive Care Center, we offer the most advanced care at 37 locations throughout Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Long Island. As Brooklyn’s only NCI-designated Comprehensive Cancer Center, we provide ever-expanding services to communities of the city’s largest borough. We bring top cancer care closer to home, so you can focus on your health. Here’s where you can find us. “It’s one thing to get medical treatment that is excellent. But it’s another thing when people go above and beyond. They took care of me physically, emotionally, and spiritually.” Read Our Stories Ranked Among the Top 20 Cancer Centers in the Nation ’s “Best Hospitals” ranks Perlmutter Cancer Center among the top 20 in the nation. Doctors at the Forefront of Their Fields Our compassionate physicians are leaders in their cancer specialties and committed to achieving the very best treatment outcomes. Medical, radiation, and surgical oncologists and other specialists seamlessly collaborate across our health system to support your whole health. View All Cancer Specialists Transforming Cancer Care with Education and Research Our doctors are dedicated to training the next generation of oncologists and to leading basic, translational, and clinical research to define new standards for cancer treatment. Cancer Education & Training Cancer Research Cancer News and Breakthroughs Explore the Latest Developments from Our Experts We have locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens, and Westchester County. 646-933-3931 At NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction, our experts provide specialized care for people with limb loss. Our surgeons partner with occupational therapists, prosthetists, and mental health professionals to help you achieve the maximum level of movement and function after amputation. We recognize that limb loss not only affects physical functioning, but also psychological and emotional wellbeing. We bring together a team that can identify and address any barriers to regaining mobility and independence. Our mission is to empower you to more seamlessly engage in your activities and move through everyday life. VIDEO: Meet the multidisciplinary care team at NYU Langone’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction. Limb Loss Rehabilitation Rehabilitation medicine specialists provide care and support as you continue your recovery. Our surgeons specialize in the most advanced surgical techniques and prosthetic technologies, and work together with you to understand your goals and attain the best possible outcome. We offer options that help to reduce pain, treat phantom limb sensation, and improve the movement and control of an amputated limb with prosthesis. These procedures include the following: targeted muscle reinnervation (TMR), a surgical procedure that minimizes chronic pain and helps with prosthesis control creation of regenerative peripheral nerve interfaces within the amputated limb to stimulate nerves, help manage pain and improve prosthetic function revision surgery of the amputated limb and nerve procedures to ease pain that results from an ill-fitting prosthesis osseointegration, a procedure in which the prosthesis is integrated and permanently implanted into the bone fitting of a myoelectric prosthesis, which uses electrodes to pick up and respond to electrical impulses that are created when muscles are flexed Our surgeons collaborate with a team that includes on-site occupational therapists and prosthetists to tailor care to your specific needs and priorities. Our prosthetists are highly experienced in providing an array of prosthetic devices for all levels of limb loss and assist in surgical planning to ensure optimal fit, integration, and comfort. Our occupational therapists recognize the roles, activities, and personal experiences that are most meaningful to you in developing a treatment and rehabilitation plan. Our team of experts collaborates to ensure people with limb loss receive the care they need. After surgery, we can refer you to , where specialists in physical medicine and rehabilitation, physical and occupational therapy, psychology, social work, and vocational rehabilitation provide you with so you can continue your recovery. Continuing Medical Education NYU Langone regularly hosts continuing medical education (CME) events designed to help doctors and other medical professionals develop, maintain, and increase their knowledge and skills. Our next event, Bionic Reconstruction Conference (BReCON): The Future of Integrated Upper Limb Surgical and Prosthetic Innovation , takes place on November 30, 2023 from 7:00AM to 5:00PM at NYU Langone Health Alumni Hall, 550 First Avenue, New York, NY 10016. Register for this conference and learn more about all of our CME events For questions about our services, call 646-933-3931 or email Wendy Razzi, program coordinator, at Wendy.Razzi@NYULangone.org If you are a prosthetist who would like to refer a patient, please call 718-440-5307 Show Menu Specialties Cardiology & Heart Surgery Diabetes & Endocrinology Gastroenterology & GI Surgery Neurology & Neurosurgery Pulmonology & Lung Surgery Urology Case of the Month Physician Resources Expert Perspectives Center for Molecular Oncology Will Deliver Personalized Cancer Care at Scale Dr. Shridar Ganesan and Dr. Alec Kimmelman discuss how the new Center for Molecular Oncology could transform patient care. Unleashing the Clinical Potential of Whole-Genome Sequencing A big-picture approach to molecular oncology could reveal new therapeutic targets, improve diagnostic testing, and transform patient care. Tackling Underuse & Expanding Access to Blood & Marrow Transplant Services Dr. Anne S. Renteria joins NYU Langone Hospital—Long Island to boost access to state-of-the-art cell therapies. Classifying Individual Cancers to Help Transform Treatment Dr. Shridar Ganesan on how the tools of molecular oncology can reshape cancerdiagnosis, treatment, and research. Urologist Dr. Stacy Loeb on the Benefit of Plant-Based Diets for Prostate Cancer Her team's research highlights the benefits of plant-based eating for cancer prevention and enhancing the health of survivors. Practice-Changing Medicine Optimizing Access to Fertility Preservation Across a Large Health System Perlmutter Cancer Center’s new program ensures that patients know their options—and have the opportunity to pursue them. In Conversation With Dr. Steven Hodak on New Paradigms in the Diagnosis & Treatment of Thyroid Nodules Co-director of Thyroid Program discusses how we’re seeing a huge shift in the way we can take care of patients with thyroid disease. Explore More NYU Langone Health: A Leader in Cancer Ranked Among the Nation’s Best Cancer Centers An NCI Comprehensive Cancer Center 200+ active interventional therapeutic clinical trials Complex Case Spotlight Targeted Salvage Cryoablation Resolves Radio-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Advanced Imaging Localizes Lesion & Rules Out Metastatic Disease About 11 years after a diagnosis of prostate cancer treated with radiation therapy, a patient presented with progressively rising PSA levels. Multiparametric MRI revealed a lesion in the left medial posterior base peripheral zone; a subsequent MRI-ultrasound fusion biopsy demonstrated prostate cancer in 1 of 12 systematic cores and 3 of 3 targeted cores obtained from the lesion. An 18F-fluciclovine whole-body PET CT supported the conclusion of a local recurrence and found no evidence of metastatic disease. Prostate imaging. A) Axial T2 MRI scan showing PI-RADS 5 lesion. B) Apparent diffusion coefficient map with corresponding region of restricted diffusion. C) 18F-fluciclovine PET demonstrating uptake in the left posterior prostate. 1 of 3 Salvage Cryoablation Treats Prostate Cancer Recurrence Salvage partial gland cryoablation deploys the energy in a smaller and more focal treatment volume and at a slower rate to minimize the higher risk for side effects in a post-radiation setting. For the procedure, six V-probes were placed into the left posterior hemi-prostate, with six thermocouple probes at treatment boundaries to provide intraoperative temperature assessment of the margins. Post-ablation imaging. A) Pretreatment MRI. B) Four-year post-ablation MRI showing no evidence of tumor. 2 of 3 Post-Treatment PSA Monitoring Affirms Successful Cancer Therapy To be successful, salvage focal cryoablation requires careful patient selection and a meticulous treatment application; in addition, monitoring patients with serial PSA and MRI can provide essential clinical endpoints. Four years after the salvage cryoablation procedure, regular PSA monitoring has found no evidence of prostate cancer in the patient. Read The Full Article The patient’s PSA levels. 3 of 3 Your Partner in Every Patient’s Care To refer a patient, call Subscribe for Updates in Cancer Sign up for Physician Focus emails for practice-changing news and perspectives from our experts at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Select Your Interests The Best Experts and Latest Breakthroughs to receive updates on our pioneering research, innovations, expert perspectives, case studies, practice-changing medicine, and more. If you are a member of the media and interested in any of these stories, contact: Media Relations Office NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Expert Diagnosis Interventional Endocrinology Scar-Reducing or Scarless Surgery Doctors at NYU Langone’s Thyroid Program are internationally recognized leaders in providing innovative, supportive, and expert care to people who have thyroid disease. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits right where the knot of a necktie would be and produces hormones that control your metabolism, growth, and development. At the Forefront of Care We were the first in New York City to offer radiofrequency ablation to treat large, noncancerous thyroid nodules and are among the first in the U.S. to use the technology to treat some small thyroid cancers. New Ablative Therapy We are the first in the New York State area to offer innovative nanosecond pulsed field ablation to treat thyroid nodules. Innovative Treatments NYU Langone is one of only a few medical centers in the United States to offer thyroid artery embolization as an alternative to surgery to treat extremely large goiters. Leaders in the Field Members of our team are among the founders of the North American Society for Interventional Thyroidology, which has pioneered the use of nonsurgical thyroid procedures. Our team of doctors includes endocrinologists, surgeons, radiologists, interventional neurosurgeons, radiation and medical oncologists, and pathologists. Together, we treat a wide variety of thyroid conditions, including thyroid nodules and all types of thyroid cancer . We also treat A Full Spectrum of Care We offer a full spectrum of care, from the diagnosis of thyroid nodules to the newest interventional, minimally invasive treatments that are not widely available at other institutions. Our doctors were among the first in the United States to offer three interventional, nonsurgical approaches to care: radiofrequency ablation (RFA), thyroid artery embolization, and nanosecond pulsed field ablation, or nsPFA. Our doctors are also experts in ethanol (alcohol) ablation of thyroid cysts. These interventional endocrinology procedures can reduce or eliminate scarring and help preserve healthy thyroid tissue, avoiding hypothyroidism, which is common following thyroid surgery. Interventional procedures are an excellent alternative to surgery for appropriately selected patients. In cases where conventional open surgery is required, our experts evaluate patients to identify opportunities to use advanced techniques that help to minimize visible scarring Personalized, Streamlined, High-Quality Treatment Our experts partner with you to create care plans tailored to your needs, providing the right treatment at the right time. From education about treatment options to creating seamless treatment plans that reduce the number of appointments needed, we support your individual healthcare goals. Whether you require a watchful waiting approach for a thyroid nodule , active surveillance of small thyroid cancers—which means watching closely without surgery— , an interventional procedure, or surgery, our specialists provide you with the highest quality of care. We thoughtfully combine new and evolving techniques in our care plans and offer patients access to innovative treatments. Our doctors are leaders in minimally invasive treatments for thyroid nodules and cancers. Sumedha Chablani Umamaheswar Duvvuri Alexander R. Goldberg Sapir N. Goldberg Steven Hodak Kenneth S. Hu Rachel Liou Endocrine Surgeon Lindsey E. Moses Melonie A. Nance Kepal N. Patel Michael J. Persky Jason D. Prescott Insoo Suh Theresa Tran Ruth A. White Head & Neck Oncologist From Cancer Patient to Med School Medical Dermatology Cosmetic Dermatology Hair Loss Services Surgical Dermatology Pediatric Dermatology Allergic & Contact Dermatology Skin of Color Services Skin Autoimmune Disorder Services Pigmented Lesions & Melanoma Services Our NYU Langone dermatologists are experts in the diagnosis of all skin cancers . We specialize in providing care for people who are at increased risk of developing , including people who have many pigmented lesions such as moles and atypical or dysplastic nevi, and people who have already had melanoma or who have a family history of the condition. Our team has a long history of leadership in the diagnosis of melanoma at its early, surgically curable stage. Most notably, doctors at NYU Langone developed the “ABCDE” method for identifying melanoma, which is now widely recognized. We also pioneered the use of standardized total body photography to monitor people at increased risk for melanoma, and dermoscopy and other noninvasive methods to improve the accuracy of our diagnoses of skin lesions that are suspected of being cancer. Our dermatologists are leaders in educating dermatologists-in-training and dermatologists throughout the world in these methods. We use the latest dermascopy tools that can identify cancerous lesions with great accuracy. Our patients benefit from our use of the latest noninvasive diagnostic methods and tools. These include total body photography to monitor people who have an increased number of pigmented skin lesions, and dermoscopy, which uses a handheld magnifier that allows dermatologists to look deeply into the skin. We also use sequential digital dermoscopic monitoring, which allows us to detect skin cancer at the earliest stages while performing fewer biopsies of harmless lesions. The latest addition to our noninvasive diagnostic toolkit is an imaging technology called reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM). RCM is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration–approved, noninvasive imaging tool that is designed to capture highly magnified images of the skin in real time, at a nearly microscopic level. It provides a more