PM The spectrum of neurosurgery includes cranial, spinal, and peripheral nerve disorders related to vascular disease, brain tumors, pain, and movement, as well as behavioral disorders, epilepsy, and trauma. This one-day program will address significant clinical problems for which there may be clinical equipoise on available options, or for which current science does not provide solutions based on high-level medical evidence. Surgical, Pharmacological, and Technological Advances in Urology December 8 – 10, 2022 7:45 AM ET The diagnosis and management of many urologic diseases have been greatly influenced by recent pharmacological, surgical, and technological advances. This update, led by an internationally acclaimed faculty, will provide presentations on male sexual dysfunction, endourology, voiding dysfunction, prostate cancer, reconstructive urology, and chronic pelvic pain. In this live format, case presentations and Q&As will enhance the didactic lectures. March 2023 Big Gut Seminars: Focus on Complex Esophageal Disease and Inflammatory Bowel Disease March 1 – 31, 2023 These CME- and MOC-accredited courses are focused on emerging concepts and controversies in the pathogenesis, diagnosis, and evidence-based treatment of individuals with benign or pre-malignant esophageal disease (March 24) and complex IBD (March 31). Featuring a multidisciplinary faculty of national leaders and an interactive format, each full-day program discusses novel treatment options, emerging issues in clinical care, and challenging complex patient cases. Bladder Cancer Symposium: Update on Medical and Surgical Management for the Urologist March 10, 2023 550 First Avenue, Alumni Hall 12:00 PM – 6:00 PM ET This course will focus on the diagnosis and management of non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC); novel therapies for high-risk NMIBC; immunologic approaches; and technical advances in surgical treatment, bladder preservation, and reconstructive surgery. Case presentations with faculty participation will enhance the practical value of the course, and registrants will have the opportunity to participate in question-and-answer sessions. Pediatric Rheumatology: 12th Annual Update for Clinicians March 15, 2023 12:30 PM – 5:30 PM ET With fewer than 250 pediatric rheumatologists in the United States and several states lacking even a single pediatric rheumatologist, this course fills a critical need for general pediatricians and adult rheumatologists to have sufficient training to diagnose and potentially manage children with rheumatic disease. Promoting increased awareness is essential for early treatment of rheumatic diseases in order to minimize damage and improve patient outcomes. Conferences 6th World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference July 18 – 20, 2023 New York, NY | Hosted by NYU Langone Health World Bronchiectasis & NTM Conference 2023 will explore recent advances in the diagnosis, treatment and management of bronchiectasis and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections. CME-accredited in-person and livestreaming course includes expert lectures, original research presentations, panel discussions, and more. Register Here Cardiometabolic Risk in Inflammatory Conditions: Emerging Insights and Treatment April 28, 2023 NYU Langone Health, 550 First Ave, Alumni Hall 7:45 AM – 2:50 PM ET This one-day course is designed to provide an informative and practical guide to clinical management across a spectrum of cardiovascular conditions in those with systemic inflammation and such disease states as recurrent pericarditis, dyslipidemia, and atherosclerosis. Updates on novel imaging techniques, microvascular testing, and MRI to evaluate the myo and pericardium will be presented, as well as emerging data and practical lessons from cardio-rheumatology clinics. Harmonizing Best Practices in Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury Rehabilitation Spinal cord injury (SCI) in children and adolescents is a complex and life-changing condition, and yet, there is no agreed-upon international model of care to inform best practices and improve rehabilitation services. Recognizing this problem, a team of specialists from seven countries came together to study and compare the existing systems of care , with the goal of fostering collaboration and harmonizing best practices in the field. Tamara Bushnik, PhD , experts from NYU Langone Health’s , took part in the initiative. The project was the first international multicenter study to describe the organization of services and systems of care for specialized pediatric SCI rehabilitation “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation.” “Collaboration across borders is paramount to capture both the similarities and disparities in pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” says Dr. Sukhov, a clinical associate professor of rehabilitation medicine and a pediatric physiatrist at Paucity of Research According to Dr. Sukhov, the body of literature on pediatric SCI rehabilitation is scarce, noting that access to services, the rights of children, and the quality of healthcare can vary widely in and between countries. “Specialized pediatric rehabilitation services require high-level medical expertise and resources,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “The multidisciplinary service includes ongoing evaluations, establishment of treatment goals and patient-focused guidance provided by a highly qualified team ideally led by a pediatric physiatrist.” Moreover, he emphasizes that non-clinical factors, such as access to care, programmatic support, community mission-based support, and availability of follow-up services have a considerable impact on outcomes, but are not well described. “Pediatric SCI requires a lifelong commitment to rehabilitation, supported by both healthcare and philanthropic organizations, to ensure that the child affected by SCI will be able to transition to adulthood and rejoin society,” Dr. Sukhov says. First-of-Its-Kind Study The researchers pooled data from 10 rehabilitation units in seven countries (China, Israel, Norway, Palestine, Russia, Sweden, and the United States), finding similarities in the organization and administration of services, but also notable differences. With respect to similarities, most units were publicly funded, and only 3 of 10 had a dedicated pediatric SCI unit. While there were large variations in catchment area, pediatric population, and referrals, the majority had similar challenges in discharge policy, such as home modifications and funding of equipment. While all units offered some type of long-term follow-up activities post-discharge, the frequency and content of the follow-up varied across units—some units did not meet in person for follow-up stays, but instead offered information booklets, telephone calls, or video consultations. “Extension of these studies may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Overall, seven units offered lifelong follow-up. Four units had mobile follow-up teams, and after the age of 18 years, most adolescents were transitioned to an adult unit for follow-up. Concerning disparities, there was a notable variation in staffing between units, and some teams did not prioritize interdisciplinary and multiprofessional collaboration. “The primary concern for SCI care is the welfare of the child despite economic, sociodemographic, and cultural differences between countries and regions,” Dr. Sukhov explains. “We highlight the imperative humanitarian need to expand understanding of SCI models of care for children, ultimately resulting in better clinical and functional outcomes.” Call to Action Based on these findings, the investigators identified a need for evidence-based, international guidelines for children with SCI rehabilitation needs. To bring this to fruition, next steps will be to strengthen existing relationships and form new collaborations with experts both nationally and internationally, Dr. Sukhov says. “Extension of these studies can potentially bridge the gaps in our collective knowledge on pediatric SCI rehabilitation,” Dr. Sukhov says, “and may lead to improvements in healthcare delivery for this underserved population.” Minimizing the Miss Rate: How AI Is Reshaping Colonoscopy Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH To improve the quality and efficacy of colonoscopy, estimated to miss upwards of 30 percent of polyps , endoscopists at NYU Langone Health are working with computer-aided polyp detection (CADe) systems that act as a second set of eyes. National, multicenter clinical trials evaluating artificial intelligence (AI) in colonoscopy have solidified the technology’s role as a true aid, with NYU Langone researchers , involved in two such studies. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients,” says Dr. Shaukat, the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine. “Our findings add to the growing amount of literature that shows using computer-aided technology during an endoscopy procedure can improve the quality of exams performed and improve outcomes for our patients.” “As the role of artificial intelligence in endoscopy grows, we are making sure that it is adding value to patient care,” says Dr. Gross, clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology AI as a Proven Aid Recently reported in , Dr. Shaukat led a large randomized controlled trial that evaluated a CADe device, SKOUT, in colonoscopy procedures. Involving nearly 1,500 participants, the study found the device increased the adenomas per colonoscopy (APC) rate by 27 percent, from 0.83 to 1.05, while causing no increase in resection of non-neoplastic lesions. Notably, the device supported a 20 percent increase in the detection of small (1 to 4 millimeter) lesions and a 29 percent increase in the detection of larger (5 to 9 millimeter) lesions, challenging a criticism that AI systems only increase the detection of diminutive polyps. “Use of the CADe system enabled an increase in the detection of large lesions particularly in the proximal colon, which is of great interest as studies suggest traditional colonoscopy is not as effective at preventing proximal cancers,” Dr. Shaukat says. Building on Early Success The trial builds on one of the first randomized controlled trials of CADe for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States. Clinical Gastroenterology and Hepatology with Dr. Gross as a co-author, that study found an increase in APC and a decrease in the miss rate of adenomas, polyps, and sessile serrated lesions with the use of the CADe device EndoScreener. “When you find large adenomas and sessile serrated lesions, those are always value-add. But we’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Dr. Gross says. “We’ll probably never know that information because when we see a polyp, we remove it.” “We’re coming to a period where the question can be raised, ‘What’s the long-term benefit when you find a very small adenoma? How does it impact the patient’s life?’” Seth A. Gross, MD, MPH Both EndoScreener SKOUT have received 510(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for colorectal cancer screening and surveillance. Rethinking Surveillance Given New Demands An increase in polyp detection rates with the use of AI also means an increase in the number of patients requiring surveillance. Yet, this is another area in which AI may provide solutions, says Dr. Gross, by better risk-stratifying patients based on what is found during colonoscopy. Recent updates to colorectal cancer surveillance guidelines from the U.S. Multi-Society Task Force, of which Dr. Gross is a member, are also serving to address this concern. “For very small precancerous polyps, what used to be a five-year interval is now a seven-year interval, what used to be a guaranteed three-year interval is a three- to five-year interval,” he says. “These adjustments are made based on studies and outcomes data. You don’t want to bring someone back for a very diminutive, precancerous polyp when they could probably wait a little bit longer. Hopefully that will balance out what the technology does in terms of identifying more patients to follow.” Dr. Gross has served as a consultant for Olympus. Dr. Shaukat reports research funding to NYU Langone Health for the current manuscript from Iterative Scopes and consulting fees from Freenome Inc and Medtronic. Seth A. Gross, MD, is clinical chief of the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology and a professor of medicine. His research focuses on new technologies for screening, diagnosing, and treating cancerous and precancerous gastrointestinal conditions. Aasma Shaukat, MD, MPH, is the Robert M. and Mary H. Glickman Professor of Medicine and Gastroenterology, a professor of population health, and director of outcomes research in the Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology. Her research focuses on colorectal cancer screening and prevention. A New Model for Studying Corneal Diseases Disorders of the cornea are a leading cause of blindness worldwide . While surgical transplant of donor cornea is an effective treatment option, it remains out of reach for most patients. This large unmet need has helped to propel interest in developing cell-based regenerative therapies for blinding corneal diseases, says Shukti Chakravarti, PhD , a professor of ophthalmology and pathology at NYU Langone Health. “A crucial step to developing such therapies is improving our understanding of corneal tissue development, as well as the interactions between corneal cell types,” Dr. Chakravarti explains. Dr. Chakravarti and her research team are exploring the development of 3D organoids that could offer researchers a new investigative platform to better model the cellular complexity and functionality of the human cornea. They recently published preliminary results of their work in PNAS Nexus “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis. We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” “Organoid technology has revolutionized the study of developmental stages and disease pathogenesis,” says Dr. Chakravarti. “We believe this new model provides a valuable 3D cell culture system for studying corneal disease mechanisms.” Addressing Current Shortcomings While some studies have investigated the single-cell transcriptomic composition of the human cornea, its organoids have not been examined extensively. Conventional 2D cell culture models often lack key information about tissue development and the consequences of interactions between cell types. The researchers began their approach with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of the central human cornea to determine its epithelial, stromal, and endothelial cellular landscape. They also performed scRNA-seq on human cornea organoids and compared the organoid single-cell transcriptome with that of the adult human cornea. Modeling Corneal Diseases In their report, Dr. Chakravarti and her team showcased the repertoire of cornea-like cells present in the organoid. As a whole, the organoid displayed features of a developing or a healing cornea. “Our sequencing data show the presence of all three cell types in the organoids and, overall, their closer resemblance to developing rather than adult corneas,” says Dr. Chakravarti. While the three major corneal cell types—epithelial, stromal keratocyte, and endothelial—are often investigated in single monolayer cultures, the 3D organoid system has already confirmed that interactions between all the three major layers are imperative for proper functioning of the cornea, she adds. Based on these initial findings, the organoids offer a promising experimental system to model human diseases in tissue culture. While the 3D model appears to best conventional 2D cell culture models, further refinement and validation is still needed. “Additional standardizations and sequencing of larger batches are needed for consistency. In the meantime, the cornea organoids may be used in functional studies of genes during early corneal development,” says Dr. Chakravarti. Ophthalmology, Pathology Shukti Chakravarti, PhD, is a professor and Interim Vice Chair for Research in the Department of Ophthalmology and a professor in the Department of Pathology. Her research focuses on understanding how the extracellular matrix regulates cellular functions and tissue homeostasis and identifying the underlying genetic causes in the corneal disease keratoconus. Ranibizumab Port Delivery System: Is There a Cost Benefit? Comparison study presents a model for investigating costs of intravitreal anti-VEGF injections vs. ranibizumab PDS for nAMD. Presenters at World Cornea Congress VIII and AAO 2022 NYU Langone Health experts joined international ophthalmology colleagues in Chicago, September 28-October 3. An Innovative Collaboration Seeks to Evolve Understanding of Keratoconus Early diagnosis, disease stabilization, risk factor awareness, and genetic studies offer hope for patients. Navigating Evolving Options for Glaucoma Surgery A researcher of new, less-invasive technologies explains that all surgical options still play valuable roles. Better Predicting Progression of Retinopathy of Prematurity An expert in ROP discusses opportunities to fix the gaps in detection and diagnosis. Mobile App Takes Vision-Based Testing Onsite Shedding Light on How Norovirus Triggers Crohn’s Disease Ken H. Cadwell, PhD Crohn’s disease is influenced by a complex mixture of genetic and environmental causes. Past studies have shown that a variant of the ATG16L1 gene is associated with increased risk of the disease. In mouse models, for example, viruses can trigger symptoms in animals bred with that mutation. Until recently, however, the process by which those pathogens activate the illness has remained unknown. A pioneering study led by NYU Langone Health researchers, , has revealed a mechanism for the first time and points toward a new target for developing improved treatments. “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation,” explains study co-senior author , the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology. “When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” “Our study suggests that a subgroup of intestinal T cells secrete a protein that protects Paneth cells from the effects of this mutation. When a virus infects patients with the risk allele, it can block production of the protein, tipping the balance toward a full-blown inflammatory disease.” , a professor of biochemistry and molecular pharmacology and a member of NYU Langone’s , also served as co-senior author of the new study. Identifying a Protective Protein Previous investigations of have suggested a link between Paneth cells—intestinal epithelial cells crucial to regulating gut microbial communities—and the inflammation characteristic of Crohn’s disease. Mice with the mutant gene, as well as humans with Crohn’s disease who have two copies of the risk allele, often display abnormalities in Paneth cells. In experiments with mutant mice raised in a sterile environment, these abnormalities emerged only after the animals were infected with murine norovirus (MNV). In their recent study, NYU Langone researchers set out to learn how this damage took place. They studied groups of mice with and without the mutation. In both groups, intestinal T cells known as γδ intraepithelial lymphocytes (IELs) secreted apoptosis inhibitor 5 (API5), a protein that signals the immune system to stop attacking once a microbe has been subdued. When the mutant mice were infected with MNV, however, their γδ IELs lost the ability to secrete API5, leaving Paneth cells vulnerable to injury or destruction by a dysregulated immune response. To see whether increasing API5 levels could have a protective effect, the team injected some of the mutant mice with the human version of the protein. All the treated animals survived, while half of the untreated group died. In human gut tissue, the researchers found, patients with Crohn’s disease had between 5- and 10-fold fewer API5-producing T cells than those without the disease. When the team constructed intestinal organoids from people with the risk allele, these “mini-guts” showed impaired growth and susceptibility to damage when exposed to tumor necrosis factor (TNF), a proinflammatory cytokine. Treatment with API5 improved organoid viability and Paneth cell numbers, and enhanced their resistance to TNF-induced cell death. A Potential Therapeutic Target Other factors besides norovirus may play a similar role in “unmasking” the deleterious effect of the variant. “We found that Salmonella infection also suppresses API5 secretion, and previous research has shown an association between smoking and Paneth cell defects in mice and humans with mutations. Rather than a specific microorganism or toxic trigger, it’s possible that multiple environmental stressors that disrupt IEL function can lead to Paneth cell dysfunction and disease in vulnerable individuals,” says Dr. Cadwell. Beyond shedding light on the etiology of Crohn’s disease, the research raises the possibility of a novel approach to treatment. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD “Current therapies, which rely on immune suppression, put patients at high risk for infection and may become less effective over time,” says Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology and the study’s lead author. “If Paneth cell abnormalities contribute to sustaining inflammation, combining anti-inflammatory agents with strategies that restore the protective function of IELs, such as API5 administration, could be particularly effective for reversing the course of the disease.” NYU Langone has patents pending (10,722,600, 62/935,035, and 63/157,225) for therapies developed from this treatment approach, from which Dr. Cadwell, Dr. Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, and NYU Langone may benefit financially. The terms and conditions of these relationships are being managed in accordance with the policies of NYU Langone. Immunology, Microbiology Ken H. Cadwell, PhD, is the Recanati Family Professor of Microbiology and a professor of medicine. His research centers on understanding how infectious agents and the microbiome regulate susceptibility to inflammatory disease. Gastroenterology, Microbiology Yu Matsuzawa-Ishimoto, MD, PhD, is a gastroenterologist and endoscopist and a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Microbiology. His research focuses on the pathogenesis of irritable bowel diseases through a translational approach using preclinical models and clinical samples. Chemoprevention: Best Practice Advice for Colorectal Neoplasia Recommendations state that only two medications should be considered, as others lack efficacy. Maximizing the Impact of IBD Treatment An array of new tools and therapies bring precision medicine to IBD clinical care. Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease: Expanding the Clinical Toolkit A renowned liver expert updates on the latest diagnostic and treatment options. AI Set to Bring Expansive Benefits to Endoscopists , clinical chief of the , was involved in one of the first randomized controlled trials of computer-aided detection (CADe) for screening and surveillance colonoscopy in the United States and currently serves on the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy’s (ASGE) Artificial Intelligence in GI task force , which aims to help guide the evolution and implementation of AI technology in the field. Here, Dr. Gross shares with his perspective on the expansive potential of artificial intelligence (AI) in endoscopy, with improved polyp detection through CADe marking the first of many enhancements ahead. Extending the Advantages of CADe Across medicine, there are ever-expanding opportunities for AI to improve care. Now that CADe systems have refined polyp detection, what’s next for AI in colonoscopy and in endoscopy as a whole? Dr. Gross: AI is certainly going to continue to grow. If you look at the colonoscopy procedure itself, identifying polyps and precancerous polyps is just one element. AI can also help in characterization of the polyp, for example, distinguishing whether it’s precancerous or benign. And it will be able to potentially tell us if the bowel cleanse is adequate. Expanding to areas outside of colon polyps to other diseases that we commonly see in gastroenterology, AI will potentially help to detect Barrett’s esophagus or gastric cancer or pick up precancerous cells in someone with chronic inflammatory bowel disease. “For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation.” On top of that, AI provides the potential for voice recognition during procedures, which could enable notes to be generated while we’re working and make the endoscopy unit more efficient. Guiding Care in Gastrointestinal Bleeding AI is also playing an important role in analyzing large datasets. Are there any exciting advancements along this front related to endoscopy? There was a study looking at a population we see a lot as gastroenterologists, which is patients with gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding, and being able to risk stratify those patients based on the clinical information in their medical records to determine who should get admitted, who could go home, and who should have an endoscopy. That’s a great example of using AI to help the physician analyze large pieces of data to better guide clinical care. Shaping Priorities for AI Research As a member of ASGE’s Artificial Intelligence in GI task force, you’re working to set priorities for AI applications in endoscopy. What are some key initiatives the group is working on? We’re trying to be advocates for patients and physicians and help ensure that AI algorithms and systems that come onto the market are up to our quality standards. One of our goals is to develop metrics so that new companies that have an AI platform they want to get integrated into daily clinical care know the benchmarks they need to reach. We also do a lot around physician education. AI and the Physician As you’ve adopted AI into your practice, do you feel it’s changed your approach or role in caring for patients? For all the potential of AI, it doesn’t take away how important the physician’s role is. The physician must be engaged, and the physician must use all the things they’ve learned over their training and apply the art of medicine to the patient in the clinical situation. AI only has the potential to enhance what we’re already doing in medicine today. Decoding SUDEP Risk with Comprehensive Registry Analyses Research led by specialists at NYU Langone Health’s is helping to pinpoint biomarkers—and untangle potential root causes—of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP), a rare but well-recognized cause of death in people with uncontrolled seizures. Each year, SUDEP is estimated to occur in 1 out of every 1,000 people with epilepsy . It affects all age groups and until recently little was understood about how the condition of patients with epilepsy or the characteristics of seizures might lead to death. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” “There was a recognition by physicians and the patient community that we needed to better understand why some patients can have a single tonic–clonic seizure and die from it,” says , chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. “It wasn’t enough to tell patients and families that it was uncommon—we wanted to uncover what could be done to prevent it.” Uncovering a Mechanism Dr. Devinsky was a principal investigator involved in the Center Without Walls—a scientific collaborative funded by the National Institutes of Health and launched in 2014 to enhance the understanding of SUDEP. The virtual center yielded several research initiatives characterizing the biomarkers and neuropathology involved in SUDEP. Separately, Dr. Devinsky and his team created the North American SUDEP Registry —the most comprehensive SUDEP registry to date—which has gathered and centralized information on the epidemiology of SUDEP in more than 400 patients. The foundational studies powered by both the collaborative and the registry have led investigators to understand a likely mechanism involved in SUDEP: central respiratory arrest and cardiac arrhythmia following tonic–clonic seizures. “These studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures. SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” “Importantly, these studies have emphasized that SUDEP is not a phenomenon limited to patients with severe seizures,” notes Dr. Devinsky. “We are beginning to build an understanding of all the factors that contribute to a given patient’s risk—but SUDEP happens to patients with milder disease as well.” Specific SUDEP Biomarkers In a third research initiative, Dr. Devinsky is collaborating with , associate chief of the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service, to further investigate the clinical, genetic, and physiological mechanisms of SUDEP by combining biospecimens and lifestyle information from patients living with epilepsy—as well as those who have died from SUDEP and their family members. For example, the researchers are analyzing how measures such as heart rate variability may associate with SUDEP, pinpointing new biomarkers, including reduced short-term low-frequency power Along with MRI analyses of structural changes in the brain and electroencephalograph (EEG) data identifying the duration of typical postseizure changes in brain activity, these data can be used by physicians and researchers to stratify patient risk of SUDEP and point to potential areas for intervention. “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target counseling and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment.” “We want to understand which patients are at highest risk so we can target patient counseling, identify surrogate end points for interventional studies, and find mechanistic pathways for preventive treatment,” says Dr. Friedman. Stratifying Risk, Targeting Intervention With the help of artificial intelligence (AI), the researchers are also using biomarker data from the studies to build a machine learning tool that predicts the individual risk of SUDEP, with the goal of assisting clinicians in identifying high-risk patients. “The idea is that you could input a patient’s symptoms, medical history, and other information, and learn that their risk per year is, say, 1 in 2,800. If they are consistent with their medication routine, their risk might decline to 1 in 5,100 per year, for example,” says Dr. Devinsky. For now, preventive strategies for SUDEP are in the form of lifestyle modifications and wearable technologies. Alcohol overuse, obesity, missed medications, and sleeping alone are known risk factors that could potentially be modified through patient education. Technologies such as wearable watches with seizure-related alerts have been developed specifically to lower SUDEP risk. “The majority of SUDEP cases occur when the patient is alone,” adds Dr. Friedman. “If a higher-risk patient lives alone, a neighbor or friend could get alerts in the event of a seizure and know to check on the patient—potentially saving their life.” Epilepsy, Pediatric Epilepsy Orrin Devinsky, MD, is a professor of neurology, neurosurgery, and psychiatry; and chief of service for the NYU Langone Epilepsy Service. His research focuses on the optimal treatment of epilepsy and the causes of sudden unexplained deaths in children. Daniel Friedman, MD, is a professor of neurology. He is also director of the Comprehensive Epilepsy Center and serves as associate chief and co-director of special procedures for the NYU Langone Epilespy Service. Building the Nation’s First tDCS Telehealth Program Over the past two decades, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) has emerged as a promising therapy for a wide range of neurologic neuropsychiatric disorders. Yet while specific tDCS products have been approved for such applications in the European Union and elsewhere, the method remains investigational in the United States. Because tDCS can be effective in treating symptoms that resist conventional therapies, while posing little risk of serious adverse effects, many patients are eager to try it. One obstacle to widespread adoption, however, is the need to undergo daily sessions at a qualified facility. NYU Langone Health offers a novel alternative: the nation’s first remotely administered , led by Here, Dr. Charvet discusses tDCS’s expanding use cases and the program’s unique approach. A Winning Combination Dr. Charvet, what led you to establish NYU Langone’s home-based tDCS Program? Dr. Charvet: I was an early adopter of telerehabilitation approaches—using technology to provide therapies to people at home to help reduce their symptom burden and improve their quality of life. After leading a large home-based trial demonstrating the benefits of an online “brain training” program to treat cognitive impairment in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS), I was convinced of how much demand there is for telehealth solutions. At the same time, exciting advances were occurring in the use of noninvasive brain stimulation technologies, including the safe and portable method of tDCS. One use of tDCS is to direct the current to the region of the brain that is engaged in a training activity. A growing body of evidence shows that this method, known as “functional targeting,” can boost and harness the outcomes of other therapies. Imaging studies suggest it works by increasing cerebral blood flow in key areas and strengthening neuroplasticity. That led me to investigate whether we could add tDCS to the home-based cognitive training program that we had studied. My colleagues and I partnered with a tDCS device manufacturer, incorporating input from our patient participants, to develop a customized tDCS setup for home-based use. This includes specialized headgear and sponge electrodes, and fail-safe devices programmed to deliver a single dose of tDCS only after the patient has received clearance. We combined this technology with video visits and called the protocol “remotely supervised” tDCS (RS-tDCS) “We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions.” We then began a series of large trials studying the use of RS-tDCS for improving functional outcomes in cognitive motor exercise programs. We first tested the technology in people living with MS, and have since expanded its use to people living with many different types of neurologic and psychiatric conditions. Many patients sought to continue their tDCS treatment after participating in these studies. Patients with other disorders, some of them from outside New York State, began asking us if they could try a similar approach. And in 2019, we launched a program designed to do just that. A Growing Roster of Use Cases Besides MS, what disorders does the program treat? We’ve provided RS-tDCS to more than 200 patients from across the country with a wide range of chronic, progressive, and treatment-resistant conditions—including recovery and preservation of function in dementias post-stroke sequelae cerebellar ataxia , as well as adjunctive support for patients in minimally conscious states, and symptom management in Since early in the pandemic, we’ve also been treating patients with long COVID, which has shown encouraging results. That effort earned NYU Langone a lead role in the NIH’s ongoing RECOVER NEURO trial. And we’re about to publish a study showing improved language functioning in patients with primary progressive aphasia. The Advantages of Home-Based Care How does NYU Langone administer tDCS remotely? We start with an intake call via telehealth to evaluate the patient’s needs. Then we have a group meeting, which includes everyone from medical staff to biomedical engineers, to design a customized treatment plan. We recommend an initial cycle of at least 20 half-hour sessions for patients and their clinicians to assess whether the therapy is having the desired effect. “We’ve seen this therapy have profound impacts on patients with terrible conditions who have few other effective options for improving their symptoms.” Treatment is delivered through Epic video visits, ensuring data security and integration with electronic health records. After receiving tDCS headsets targeting brain regions involved in their condition, patients work one-on-one with clinicians who are certified through our rigorous training process, which we also offer to labs nationwide that are studying this kind of approach. We always pair tDCS with another therapeutic activity—anything from cognitive, physical, or language exercises for recovery from