for videos, and ensuring that all digital content is navigable via keyboard for those who cannot use a mouse. The Applicant’s plans will foster effective communication. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Stakeholders’ primary concern was ensuring there would be adequate staffing after the expansion (e.g. social workers, interpreters, medical staff). The Applicant plans to recruit new staff, such as at least 39 additional Registered Nurse FTEs, to staff this new unit and a rounding team to ensure access to care teams and rounds. Additionally, the Applicant will continue to offer both in person interpreter services and a language interpretation app called VOYCETM, which is embedded in the electronic health record. 17It will also be critical to monitor staffing needs as patient volume increases. The Applicant indicates that they have standard processes related to staffing, including analyzing volume trends and regularly assessing staffing needs based on patient volume, care models, and service demands. The Applicant also said that they deploy recruitment and retention strategies such as those related to salaries and professional development to attract and retain staff. All of these strategies will be critical for this project. 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The Applicant indicated that they have a long standing Family Advisory Council and will include this group in the planning of this expansion project as expansion gets closer. Additionally, the PICU Nurse Manager and Medical Director do daily rounds to talk with caregivers to get feedback on their experience and address any unmet needs real time. The Applicant also uses their parent satisfaction survey that is sent to all families post discharge. This will enable the Applicant to get important feedback about patient and caregiver needs before and after the expansion. The Independent Entity also recommends that the Applicant augment their standard survey with interviews, which would enable them to capture nuanced information about the impact and potential improvement. Ideally patients, caregivers, and staff would be contacted approximately 6 9 months after the expansion takes place. This would allow patients, caregivers, and staff to have experienced the impacts of the expansion and provide input on any potential improvements. 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? The project addresses several systemic barriers to equitable access to services and care that were identified by stakeholders during our meaningful engagement work for this assessment. The most positive aspect of the project is being able to offer more pediatric patients a bed within the PICU and thus broadening the scope of patients and families who can be served. Given that the Applicant serves many medically underserved populations at their main hospital, expanding the PICU’s ability to serve children and adolescents from these communities will improve access to services for these groups. STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? 18At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the pediatric patients of all services and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnicity, gender/gender identity, age, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. The Applicant will leverage this dashboard and data to reveal and address inequities and disparities as it implements the project. The Applicant uses dashboards to monitor and evaluate multiple outcome measures for the PICU. These outcome metrics include PICU hospital mortality rate, mortality events, 30 day readmission rates, and observed to expected length of stay. For these metrics, the Applicant is able to analyze the data by various demographic factors such as age, gender, payor, and primary language. This allows the Applicant to identify and address health disparities. Additionally, children’s services and outcomes are monitored through an existing dashboard, which provides a holistic view of health and healthcare services for children across the NYULH delivery system. At least monthly, a children’s safety and quality committee reviews the dashboard and has a standard process for responding to needed improvements. 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? In addition to their Family Advisory Council, daily rounds, and parent satisfaction survey—as well as the proposed interviews, the Applicant might consider implementing health equity training for staff and adding specific questions related to health equity to satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the state, the Applicant can re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and New York State are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant may also consider continuously engaging with patients and caregivers in this process as well as community groups to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. This will help ensure the success of this project and inform future projects of a similar nature. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will 19also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max) This project is dependent on the approval of the Congenital Health Center relocation CON. The Congenital Health Center move across the street creates the space that enables the expansion of PICU beds and therefore capacity to serve more patients and increase access to these intensive care services. PICU Mitigation Plan Through the implementation of this project, NYULH aims to enhance the patient experience and ensure patients are receiving the superior care that they deserve. While the HEIA highlighted some potential concerns from stakeholders, NYULH would like to reiterate it is very early in the planning process and is able to give all concerns strong consideration. Maintaining appropriate staffing levels is a key component of our implementation planning, and NYULH will determine the most effective staffing based on volume trends and patient care needs. Regarding recruitment, we are proactive in our efforts, continuously filling positions despite industry wide challenges. Our comprehensive recruitment plan will be in place well before the new PICU is open to ensure smooth operations. We assess staffing needs regularly based on patient volume and service demands, and we offer competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment to attract and retain top talent. The project will duplicate current PICU operations on the new floor. Therefore, we will be maintaining our current processes and procedures, along with providing additional staff to work within the newly expanded unit. Families and caregivers will have the same access to the medical team and involvement in rounds as they do currently. Information on rounding schedules will be provided to families and other caregivers ahead of time, and if they can make it, they will speak directly to the medical team while they are conducting rounds. If the time does not work for whatever reason, the medical team will reach out (via whatever means of communication is preferable for that family). To reiterate, there will be no change in the process of communicating with families, and no families will be left out of discussions about a patients’ care due to conflicting schedules. NYULH’s existing interpreter services (which include in person interpreters and the VOYCE™ language interpretation app integrated into our EPIC EHR system) will remain in place in the new unit. We will continue to provide real time medical interpretation in over 240 languages and dialects, ensuring caregivers have access to necessary language support. Again, the project will simply expand and duplicate the current services into the new unit.