for months. In our pediatric spine program, Dr. Juan C. Rodriguez-Olaverri is employing spinal tethering as a way to treat scoliosis, using a series of ropes and tethers along the spine. People fly in from all over the world for this expertise. Dr. Jun Tashiro in our Adolescent Healthy Weight Program offers that puts teens on a whole new trajectory for their lives. Our pediatric cardiac surgery outcomes are some of the best in the nation, and our pediatric cardiac ICU is fantastic. While most children’s hospitals use adult interventional radiologists, NYU has a pediatric interventional radiologist, Dr. Frederic J. Bertino , who can address a host of issues for which patients would have to go elsewhere or receive more invasive procedures. Impacting Healthcare Today and Tomorrow In closing, in what ways do the families you serve here in New York inspire you? I feel blessed to practice in a city that constantly inspires us to practice in culturally sensitive ways. We’ve made sure that this spirit of achieving equity in our care models is a central pillar of our children’s surgical program, carrying through from the small projects to the big ones. Children’s surgical care requires resiliency—in your surgeons, in your processes, and especially in your families; things don’t always go as planned. I feel that we very much benefit from the fact that New Yorkers are strong and resilient. As a progressive, forward-thinking children’s surgical program, we’re trying to impact lifetimes—decades and decades ahead. We’re putting all our chips down early in the game so these kids can go on and live healthy lives and not becomes patients with chronic conditions who must rely on resources and continuous access to the healthcare system. , surgeons Flavio Malcher, MD David K. Halpern, MD Xavier Pereira, MD , specialize in complex hernia repair and abdominal wall reconstruction. A hernia is considered complex if it is larger than 8 centimeters, or slightly more than 3 inches; has recurred after surgery; or results in a large portion of the abdominal contents bulging through the hernia, a condition called loss of abdominal domain. Without proper repair and abdominal wall reconstruction, complex hernias can develop complications or recur. Our surgeons have advanced training and are among the most experienced in the repair of complex hernias and abdominal wall reconstruction. They use the most sophisticated robotic surgical techniques, reducing the likelihood of recurrence. Presenters at the 2022 AHA Scientific Sessions This November, NYU Langone Health’s researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the American Heart Association’s 2022 Scientific Sessions in Chicago Below are notable sessions this year featuring our faculty and trainees (see a full listing of ). One presentation of special interest was the late-breaking abstract, ISCHEMIA-EXTENDed Follow-Up Interim Report , which outlined interim results from the groundbreaking ISCHEMIA trial Saturday, November 5 Biomarkers of Adverse Cardiovascular Events in Chronic Coronary Disease: Data from the ISCHEMIA Trial Session: Novel Biomarker Utilization in Stable and Unstable CAD , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone Rebecca Anthopolos, DrPH , Assistant Professor, Department of Population Health; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Oral Session #S103D Time: 3:24–3:34 p.m. A Circulating Genetic Signature in Psoriasis Associates with Future Cardiovascular Events Session: Prevention in Special Populations Authors: , Assistant Professor, Departments of Medicine and Pathology; , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Macintosh Cornwell; Kamelia Drenkova; Caron Rockman, MD , Florence and Joseph Ritorto Professor of Surgical Research, Department of Surgery; , Associate Professor, Department of Medicine; Maria Florencia Schlamp, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #3135 Time: 3–4 p.m. Development and Pilot Implementation of Two Targeted Approaches to Ambulatory Clinical Decision Support for Cardiologists to Optimize Medical Therapy for Heart Failure Session: Thinking Outside the Box: Novel Methods of Delivery of Care , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine NYU Langone Authors: Rod Aminian; Saul Blecker, MD , Professor, Department of Population Health; Ruth-Ann Diah; , Professor, Department of Population Health; , Helen L. and Martin S. Kimmel Professor of Advanced Cardiac Therapeutics, Department of Medicine; Arielle Nagler, MD , Associate Professor, Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology; Archana Saxena, MD , Clinical Instructor, Department of Medicine; Adam Szerencsy, DO , Clinical Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine; Yuhe Xia, NYU Langone Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #2205 INOCA and MINOCA: Clinical Syndromes, Imaging and Risk Session: Not Your Father’s Heart Disease: Microvascular Coronary Function and Its Contribution to Disease Author: Location: Main Event Hall II Time: 3:20–3:30 p.m. Whole Blood Multi-Omic Characterization of the ISCHEMIA Cohort Reveals Vulnerable and Resilient Subtypes of Chronic Coronary Disease Session: Emerging Clinical Applications of Genomics and Genetics , Associate Professor, Departments of Medicine and Surgery; Ze Chen; Macintosh Cornwell; , Eugene Braunwald, MD Assistant Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Location: Abstract Poster Session—Board #1097 Time: 11 a.m.–12 p.m. Sunday, November 6 Does the Choice of Blood Pressure Agent Matter? Session: Pregnancy Compilations and Cardiovascular Outcomes Dan Halpern, MD Location: Cardiovascular Seminar N140 Time: 8:24–8:32 a.m. Session: Late-Breaking Science: Drugs and Strategies in ACS and Revascularization , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, NYU Langone , Professor, Department of Medicine; Michelle Chang; Aira Contreras; , Harold Snyder Family Professor of Cardiology, Department of Medicine; Stephanie Mavromichalis; Yifan Xu, MPH , Assistant Research Scientist, Department of Population Health, NYU Langone Time: 5:39–5:49 p.m. Monday, November 7 Approach to Diagnostic Evaluation and Treatment of MINOCA Session: Ischemic Heart Disease and ACS in Women Location: Cardiovascular Seminar A101A Time: 9:54–10:06 a.m. Prevalence and Predictors of Normotensive Shock in Intermediate-Risk Pulmonary Embolism Session: Vascular Medicine Medley Location: Moderated Poster Session Science and Technology Hall Level 3 Time: 1:40–1:45 p.m. A Safe New Anesthesia Option for High-Risk Hip Fracture Patients Compared to general or spinal anesthesia, MAC-STILA anesthesia is better at maintaining a normal interoperative heart rate, yields lower pain scores, and requires a lower dose of narcotics. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. MAC-STILA is a safe and effective alternative to general or spinal anesthesia, and may reduce episodes of delirium. SOURCE: J Orthop Trauma. 2021 Oct 1;35(10):542-549. Hip fracture fixation is associated with a high risk of perioperative morbidity and mortality. Most surgeons perform the fixation under general or spinal anesthesia; although regional anesthesia with monitored anesthesia care (MAC) has become increasingly popular in recent years, no studies had assessed it in combination with soft-tissue infiltration with local anesthesia (STILA). , and colleagues examined the feasibility of using MAC-STILA for patients undergoing hip fracture fixation with short cephalomedullary nails (CMN). For their retrospective study, Journal of Orthopaedic Trauma , they matched 20 consecutive OTA 13.A1-3 IT hip fracture patients treated with a short CMN and MAC-STILA protocol 1:1:1 with other hip fracture patients who had received either general or spinal anesthesia. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care.” The researchers found that MAC-STILA was best at maintaining a normal intraoperative heart rate, yielding lower post-surgical pain scores, and minimizing narcotics. The researchers also found no meaningful differences in a range of safety metrics. Given their findings, they concluded that the MAC-STILA protocol is a safe and effective alternative to spinal or general anesthesia for fixing intertrochanteric hip fractures with short CMNs. “The use of this safe and surgeon-controlled technique will have broad implications towards improving hip fracture care. It has the potential to expedite the time to which patients are taken to the OR for surgery, to decrease overall narcotic consumption (which in the elderly can have severe side-effects), and to minimize the risk of intraoperative and postoperative complications,” says Dr. Konda. Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic Trauma Surgery Sanjit R. Konda, MD, is an assistant professor in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and director of Geriatric Orthopedic Trauma for NYU Langone Health. He is also the chairman of Orthopedics for Medisys Health Network and director of Orthopedic Trauma at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center. He specializes in treating fractures, nonunions, post-traumatic deformity, and osteomyelitis. How to Preserve Quality and Outcomes As Health Systems Grow Well-planned growth and consolidation of health systems can drive greater efficiency and care coordination, but recent studies suggest that health system mergers haven’t always lived up to this ideal. Nearly 25 years ago, NYU Langone Health embarked on a unique path to system growth when , inaugural chair of the combined Department of Orthopedic Surgery after the merger that created , was tasked with integrating two residency programs and two faculties providing care at five institutions. The same strategy later helped NYU Langone Health expand into Brooklyn and Long Island. Joseph A. Bosco III, MD , vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, continues to work closely with Thomas R. Lyon, MD , vice chair of orthopedic surgery at James D. Capozzi, MD , chair of orthopedic surgery at . Together, they ensure that ongoing growth of the system’s footprint also expands high-quality patient care. Below, they discuss opportunities and challenges they have navigated as a leadership team. Dr. Bosco, you’ve said that you approached the department’s growth believing there is a critical difference between “acquisition” and “integration.” How do each of you see that difference? Dr. Bosco: Hospital systems are growing by acquiring and merging with other systems, but in order for patients to reap the benefits, the entities must integrate. That’s why we see, nationally, that as hospital systems grow in size, their quality doesn’t necessarily improve. We’re taking a different tack here. We’ve grown deliberately and strategically, and we spend a lot of time ensuring a total integration of our service lines where we’ve chosen to merge. Dr. Capozzi: We recognize that the facilities, personnel, patient populations, and even geography in Manhattan may be very different than in Brooklyn and on Long Island. Trying to impart one way of doing things on all three hospitals would never work. To achieve a successful system integration, we’ve been in constant communication and have all learned from each other’s practices and hospitals, taking our differences into account. Dr. Lyon: It was clear from the beginning that this was going to be much more than just an affiliation, but a full-on integration of quality standards, data, and systems. We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that. “We established the important goal of providing high-quality care regardless of location, and we have created a metrics-driven system to help us achieve that.” Joseph D. Zuckerman, MD, Thomas R. Lyon, MD, Joseph A. Bosco, MD, and James D. Capozzi, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Integrated Records and Metrics In Fall 2021, the Leapfrog Hospital Safety Grade once again awarded “A” grades to NYU Langone Health’s hospitals in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island. How are you utilizing metrics to improve quality across the system? We have a detailed system of metrics for nationally accepted quality indicators on a shared dashboard, and can show that we are improving on all of these metrics across the system. When you see your efforts come to fruition through better numbers and metrics, it just energizes everyone to work even harder. The EMR system was probably the most important element; if you can’t talk to each other or look at metrics or share patient charts and data, you’re really at a disadvantage. That installation of one system-wide EMR system was done immediately and I think that was key. Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus. Can you give a specific example of how the shared data has driven quality improvement? In 2020, we looked at our hospital-acquired conditions and found that there was a small uptick in the previous six months across all sites. Among the 10 hospital-acquired conditions that we track, we found that blood clots, or VTEs [venous thromboembolisms], were causing the increase. Why was that? Because of COVID-19. We then formulated a strategy and operationalized new prophylactic DVT [deep vein thrombosis] protocols. As a result, we were able to address the increased DVT risk in near real time and provide our patients with safer, higher quality care. As another example, in 2013 we were one of the first institutions to volunteer for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Bundled Care for Improvement Initiative. In this total joint risk-sharing program, hospitals are financially responsible for all care up to 90 days post discharge, including readmissions. The CMS-provided list of all 90-day readmissions allowed us to formulate improvement strategies that decreased our readmission rates by 70 percent. On the Long Island campus, we have seen significant improvement on our total joint length of stay, our readmission rate, and our complication and mortality rates. Throughout the Brooklyn campus, in-hospital mortality rates have dropped by 33 percent since the merger , with other significant improvements in central line infections, catheter-associated urinary tract infections, and patient recommendations. “Our metrics keep improving because we all have numbers to look at and we know where we need to focus.” A Shared Vision of Collaboration When you think about a successful medical system integration, what other elements are you considering? In Brooklyn, we needed a big influx of nursing to improve our nurse to patient ratios. After the integration, a huge amount of payroll capital helped us increase our nursing ratios to not only meet quality standards, but also exceed them. So we’ve seen major investments in nursing staff, facilities, and information technology. We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration. For instance, Dr. Capozzi runs an outstanding fragility fracture service with unbelievable outcomes and detailed evidence-based care pathways, and we adopted those throughout our system. Dr. Lyon and his colleagues run an incredibly efficient operating room and we learned a lot from integrating some of their practices across NYU Langone Health as well. So it’s certainly been a two-way street, and that’s key for true integration. “We’ve all derived benefits because we started from the point of a common culture and a vision of collaboration.” Joseph A. Bosco III, MD, is a professor and vice chair of clinical affairs in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery, and director of quality and patient safety at NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital. He specializes in treating and researching knee and shoulder injuries. Thomas R. Lyon, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of orthopedic surgery, as well as vice chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery and chief of the orthopedic surgery service at NYU Langone Hospital–Brooklyn. He specializes in treating fractures. James D. Capozzi, MD, is a professor and chair of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery at NYU Langone Hospital–Long Island. He specializes in treating hip and knee arthritis and in performing hip and knee replacement surgery. Telemedicine Proves Value to Outpatient Surgery Experience Telemedicine Fosters Patient Engagement In a survey evaluating outpatient experiences with or without telemedicine, S-CAHPS response rates were as follows: 0.68 ± 0.26 for the no-contact group, 0.84 ± 0.17 for the phone group, and 0.86 ± 0.14 for the video group. ADAPTED FROM: The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery , 2021 Feb 3;103(3):243-250. Day-of-Surgery Video Calls Maximize Satisfaction Regarding the impact on patients’ experiences and future preferences, 85.9 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls gave a top satisfaction rating for their overall care, compared with 71.8 percent contacted by phone, and 60.7 percent not contacted; and 62 percent of patients receiving day-of-surgery video calls preferred a video call in future encounters with their surgeon, compared with 1.8 percent not contacted and 1.7 percent contacted by phone. ADAPTED FROM: Incorporating telemedicine in lieu of face-to-face office visits or consults is generally associated with high patient satisfaction in orthopedic surgery. In a new study, orthopedic surgeon and colleagues at NYU Langone Health assessed whether day-of-surgery video or phone calls might likewise improve patient satisfaction. Effective communication with patients following outpatient surgery can play a major role in facilitating a successful treatment outcome and ensuring their overall satisfaction,” says Dr. Strauss. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call, is a simple and very useful approach.” For the Journal of Bone & Joint Surgery , three surgeons were randomly assigned to one of three communication methods: no contact with patients after their same-day discharge, contact via a phone call, or contact via a video call. Among 251 enrolled patients, survey response rates were greater in both the video call and phone call groups than in the no-contact group. In a separate satisfaction questionnaire, the video group also scored the highest, followed by the phone group. Patients who received a video call reported a strong preference for that form of communication in the future, supporting its ability to enhance patient satisfaction. “Contacting patients on the night of their procedure, particularly in the form of a video call where the patient can see their surgeon and point out any areas of concern, is a simple and very useful approach,” notes Dr. Strauss. Tranexamic Acid, Total Joint Arthroplasty, and Coronary Artery Disease Study of tranexamic acid (TXA) use in at-risk patients having total joint arthroplasty (TJA) finds no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among 26,808 patients receiving topical or intravenous TXA. ADAPTED FROM: J Bone Joint Surg Am . 2021 May 19;103(10):900-904 Orthopedic surgeons have increasingly used tranexamic acid (TXA) as a highly effective intervention for minimizing blood loss during total joint arthroplasty (TJA). Many surgeons, however, have questioned whether TXA might increase the risk for myocardial infarction and venous thromboembolism (VTE) among TJA patients with a history of coronary artery disease (CAD) or coronary stents. , a professor or orthopedic surgery, and colleagues conducted a retrospective analysis of total hip or knee arthroplasty patients, all of whom received either topical or intravenous TXA. Their found no instance of postoperative myocardial infarctions among the at-risk patients, and no significant differences in the rate of VTEs, regardless of the patients’ history of CAD or coronary stents. Furthermore, they saw no significant differences in VTE rates regardless of whether TXA was administered intravenously or topically. Given that both TXA applications minimize blood loss and are equally safe for all TJA patient populations, the researchers recommend intravenous TXA because of its potential for easier implementation. “This essential work supports our continued use of tranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients.” “This essential work supports our continued use of t ranexamic acid among all our total joint arthoplasty patients, and helps us achieve better results and outcomes for patients,” Dr. Schwarzkopf says. NYU Langone Orthopedics Physicians at the AAOS Annual Meeting At this year’s meeting, NYU Langone Orthopedics physicians presented 65 papers, 74 posters, 18 videos, and 20 symposia, courses, and special sessions. Notable research from this year’s conference includes: Wednesday, March 23 2:10PM – 2:15PM Paper Presentation Removal of Total Hip and Total Knee Arthroplasty from the Inpatient Only List: Impact on Health Disparities Claudette M. Lajam, MD, FAAOS; Jacob F. Oeding, MS; Joseph A. Bosco, MD, FAAOS; Lauren E. Grobaty, BA Friday, March 25 8:05AM – 8:10AM Buccally Absorbed Cannabidiol Shows Promise in Treating Pain and Improving Satisfaction Immediately Following Arthroscopic Rotator Cuff Repair: A Placebo-Controlled, Double-Blinded, Randomized Trial Andrew S. Rokito, MD,FAAOS, Briana Britton, MS; Danielle H. Markus, BA, Eoghan Hurley, PhD,MCH(ORTH)(UK),MBCHB; Guillem Gonzalez-Lomas, MD, FAAOS; Kevin Kaplan, MD, FAAOS; Kinjal Vasavada, BA; Laith M. Jazrawi, MD,FAAOS, Michael J. Alaia, MD,FAAOS Multidisciplinary Conference for Complex Surgery Leads to Improved Quality and Safety Aaron J. Buckland, MBBS,FRACS; Brooke K. O’Connell; Charla R. Fischer, MD,FAAOS; Constance Maglaras, PhD; Eaman Balouch, MD, PhD; Hershil Patel, BS; Kimberly Ashayeri, MD; Michelle A. Zabat, BA; Nicole A. Mottole, BS; Themistocles S. Protopsaltis, MD,FAAOS, Tina Raman, MD, Zoe Norris P0469 Use of a Novel Augmented Reality Software to Assist in Cephalad Lag Screw Placement into the Femoral Head for Cephalomedullary Nails Abhishek Ganta, MD; Kenneth A. Egol, MD,FAAOS; Meghan C. Derken, BA; Sanjit R. Konda, MD, FAAOS; Sara J. Solasz, BA To see the complete list of presentations and events, Programs for Those with Memory Loss & Their Caregivers , we offer a wide range of activities to enhance the quality of life and wellbeing of family caregivers and friends of people with Special Programs for People with Memory Loss Caregivers can enjoy free time while their relatives engage in these stimulating programs. Buddy Program The Buddy Program pairs an adult in the early stage of with an NYU student for an intergenerational friendship and learning experience. For more information about the Buddy Program, call or email Thea Micoli at Thea.Micoli@NYULangone.org A Place for Us A Place for Us is a recreation group that provides opportunities for people living with memory loss to meet and engage creatively with others through art, music, and dance therapy. During these one- to three-hour sessions, available both in person and online, led by a seasoned recreational therapist and artist, participants are guided through various stimulating activities and projects. Activities include social engagement; exercise; creative projects such as painting, sculpture, collage, and photography; music; and movement. For more information or to register your family member in A Place for Us or our other special programs for people in the early stages of dementia, please email recreation therapist Amy Harris at Amy.Harris2@NYULangone.org Programs for Caregivers We encourage caregivers to participate in specially designed programs to help reduce the stress of caring for a loved one with memory loss. For additional information about our programs or to register, please call Care Consultation Meet with one of our licensed clinical social workers individually or with other family members, by video conferencing, by phone, or in person. Our social workers can help you address changes that have occurred in your daily life and relationships since your relative began having problems with thinking and memory. We also provide information and referrals to appropriate resources in the community. Care consultation is available in English and Spanish. Caregiver Workshops, Lectures, and Seminars Caregiver workshops and lectures on how to provide good care, obtain support for yourself, identify and access resources, implement legal and financial planning, and respond to the challenges of dementia. We also offer seminars on how to use art and music to create positive experiences for the person with dementia. For family members of people who have problems with thinking and memory, our support groups are conducted by video conferencing (Zoom) and by phone. Kaffeklatches These informal gatherings, on Zoom, give family caregivers the opportunity to get together and chat in a supportive environment. Workshops with Museum Educators We hold special workshop series for caregivers with museum educators. This is an opportunity to discuss and create art in a supportive environment with other caregivers. Programs for Caregivers and their Relatives with Memory Loss to Enjoy Together We offer a variety of activities for people with memory loss and their family members or caregivers to participate in together. For more information or to register, please call Museum and Garden Tours and Dance and Musical Performances We offer museum and garden tours and dance and musical performances specially designed for caregivers and their family members with dementia. Memory Cafés Memory cafés on Zoom for caregivers and their family members living with dementia provide opportunities to socialize with games and conversation. Referrals to Affiliated Programs We offer referrals to affiliated programs such as the Unforgettables, a chorus for family caregivers and people with memory loss. The Unforgettables offers the opportunity to rehearse and perform familiar songs and learn new ones with other family caregivers and people with memory loss. Weekly rehearsals culminate with a community concert. No prior musical knowledge or ability is required. We work closely with community partners in the Bronx and Queens. Together with PSS and Sunnyside Senior Services, our three organizations support family caregivers across the five boroughs of New York City. We refer caregivers to additional services, agencies, and professionals in the community to address additional specific needs. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Perlmutter Cancer Center joins national collaborative to address unmet needs through innovative early-phase trials. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Two studies reveal how melanoma metastasizes in the brain and how epigenetic regulation may aid its spread. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Systematic review ties plant-based regimen to reduced prostate cancer risk, improved outcomes, and overall health. Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting Our cancer experts joined international colleagues in Chicago, June 3-7. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Case exemplifies the complex decisions faced by patients with high-risk NMIBC who elect bladder preservation. Breakthrough Platform Unifies Targeted & Immune Therapies , is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of NYU Langone Health’s . Here, he discusses the HapImmune platform , which, in broadest terms, is a means to increase the antigenicity of any cancer-specific protein that can be targeted with a covalent inhibitor and presented on human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules. Dr. Neel co-developed the technology with , and it is now being commercialized by Aethon Therapeutics in partnership with NYU Langone. Building on Decades of Research Dr. Neel, you’ve been involved in the advancement of translational programs in immunotherapy, cancer genetics, and targeted therapies for several decades. How have you seen it evolve? Dr. Neel: Forty years ago, we did not know any single gene mutation causes cancer, nor did we understand the molecular basis for cancer progression and drug resistance. Now we’ve identified between 500 and 1,000 gene mutations that, in different combinations, can lead to cancer. As a result, we’ve developed a multitude of treatments, such as targeted therapies, which include small-molecule signal transduction inhibitors and antibodies against receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as small molecules that specifically target mutant oncogenes or components of their downstream signal transduction cascades. We also now have immune therapies, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors, which reactivate the patient’s own immune system against their tumors. Creating Targetable Neoantigens by Design How does the HapImmune platform represent a next step in precision cancer treatment? As I mentioned, some intracellular oncoproteins can be inhibited with targeted therapy, but responses are not durable. On the other hand, immune therapies can be curative, but most oncogene-driven tumors are unresponsive to these treatments. This new platform, HapImmune, creates targetable neoantigens by design, unifying targeted and immune therapy treatment approaches. “[T]his new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations.” We know mutant oncoproteins are “neoantigens,” that is they are, by definition, different from their normal counterpart. In principle, the mutant proteins should appear as foreign to the immune system. Fragments of some mutant oncoproteins can be presented by the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), which should trigger such an immune response. However, recognizing minimal differences between oncoproteins and their normal counterparts is difficult. Equipped with this knowledge, we developed a platform technology that exploits hapten–peptide conjugates generated by covalent inhibitors to create distinct neoantigens that selectively mark cancer cells. Can you explain how the platform works? The antibodies produced via the HapImmune platform are designed to activate T cells that will specifically eliminate tumor cells. First, we use a technology called phage display to identify antibody fragments that can bind the drug–peptide complex when it is bound to specific MHC molecules. Dr. Koide and his group are experts in this technology. After multiple rounds of phage display, we identified very high-affinity “front-end” antibodies. The chosen antibodies can then be reformatted into customized, bispecific T cell engagers, with one recognition arm directed toward the drug–peptide bound to MHC and the other toward T cell surface proteins, ultimately recruiting more T cells to attack the tumor cells. The same “front end” could also be linked to “back ends” that bring in NK cells or radioactive molecules—or even be developed into CAR T or CAR NK cells. Next Steps of Development In January 2023, you announced the launch of Aethon Therapeutics, a commercial venture designed to further develop the HapImmune platform. What lies ahead? We are still in the early days of development, but this new platform is incredibly exciting and exemplifies where the field will be heading. We’re moving quickly to advance programs focused on combinations with KRAS and EGFR inhibitors, and in the future we plan to develop other drug–antibody combinations. NYU Langone Health and its arm has exclusively licensed to Aethon pending patent applications and expertise covering the HapImmune platform. NYU Langone is the owner of the technology exclusively licensed to Aethon and has equity and other financial interests in Aethon. Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel also have equity in Aethon, and Aethon is also sponsoring research conducted by Dr. Koide and Dr. Neel at NYU Langone. These interests are being disclosed and managed in accordance with NYU Langone policies. Benjamin G. Neel, MD, PhD, is a professor of medicine and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Director of Perlmutter Cancer Center. He is an internationally renowned expert in cell signaling and cancer biology and is a member of the National Academy of Sciences. Mondor’s Disease: A Case Report & Overview of the Rare Condition A healthy 34-year-old man presented with penile pain persisting for more than three weeks. The patient had been seen by two outside physicians for the same complaint prior to seeking my opinion. The penile pain started a few hours after the man had had intercourse, which he characterized as “nothing out of the ordinary.” The pain was described as localized to the dorsal penile shaft, with tenderness and discomfort radiating from the midshaft dorsal to left lateral. A prominent vein on the dorsal penile shaft was identified as the area of maximal tenderness. I noted the following observations during a physical exam and subsequently made the diagnosis of Mondor’s disease, involving a thrombophlebitis of the dorsal penile vein. Penis: Normal male phallus with normal urethra. No penile erythema or tenderness. No urethral discharge. A cord-like structure was palpable along the dorsal aspect of the penis that extended to the left lateral shaft. There was no hematoma, erythema, or signs of infection. Scrotum: No evidence of scrotal rashes. Testes: Nontender, with no swelling or masses bilaterally. There were no hernias or varicoceles, and the vas deferens and epididymis were palpable and normal bilaterally. Here, I elaborate on the causes and clinical presentation of Mondor’s disease and detail the diagnostic workup. I also discuss management and the condition’s favorable prognosis. Etiology and Clinical Presentation A superficial vein thrombosis first described by Mondor in the chest wall in 1939, Mondor’s disease was broadened to include descriptions of penile phlebitis and thrombosis by Braun-Falco and Helm in 1958 The incidence and prevalence of Mondor’s disease of the penis is relatively rare. Most existing literature is in the form of case reports describing potential etiological factors, such as trauma during sexual activity, vigorous masturbation, or penile infection. As in this patient, the most common presenting etiology is postcoital pain and discomfort, typically overlying a swollen and tender dorsal vein. The presentation of sudden onset of pain and a palpable cord-like structure along the dorsal aspect of the penis is common, but evaluation can be delayed by weeks in some situations. Associated symptoms commonly include swelling, erythema, and bruising, noted especially when sexual activity is vigorous, causing trauma to underlying tissue. This is known as the so-called Virchow’s Triad of vessel wall damage: thrombophlebitis leading to venous stasis and subsequent clot formation A thorough differential diagnosis for penile pain and discomfort should differentiate Mondor’s thrombophlebitis from other conditions like Peyronie’s disease or penile fractures. All three conditions can occur secondary to penile trauma, sustained most commonly while the penis is erect. Diagnosis Diagnostic workup includes a thorough history and physical examination. When the presentation and physical exam are not straightforward, an imaging study is recommended. In our office, we have dedicated, urologically trained ultrasound technicians who have years of experience. An ultrasound is the quickest and least-expensive tool to diagnose Mondor’s disease. The characteristic findings of Mondor’s disease on ultrasound include a thrombosed vein, absence of arterial flow, and noncompressible vein consistent with thrombosis More-detailed studies, such as an MRI of the genitals, can help to rule out penile fractures or other trauma-related penile injuries when ultrasound is not readily available or is inconclusive. Management and Prognosis Mondor’s disease of the penis is rare and is typically related to trauma during the erect state. Rarely do men with the condition need anything more than reassurance, anti-inflammatories, and behavioral modification. Urologists should consider this diagnosis in patients presenting with penile pain and cord-like structures once Peyronie’s disease and penile fracture have been ruled out. Men with Mondor’s disease are often anxious and uncomfortable, and should be reassured that the condition is self-limiting. Conservative management options range from pain management with anti-inflammatories to warm compresses overlying the injured vein. Second-line treatments may be necessary in situations where the patient remains uncomfortable after conservative management. Consideration of anticoagulation therapy to prevent thrombus extension may be warranted in select cases; this can be done in conjunction with the vascular service. Antibiotic therapy should be administered when cellulitis is suspected . Tapered steroid dosing has been described to reduce swelling and discomfort, but is unlikely to change clot formation and resolution. Mondor’s disease has a very favorable prognosis, and symptoms usually resolve within weeks. However, patients may be very distraught and bothered by the injury and may seek out surgical treatment. There are rare cases in which surgical intervention, such as vein stripping, may be necessary for persistent cases of Mondor’s thrombosis Some potential complications include recurrence, persistent pain, and mild erectile dysfunction due to condition-related anxiety or psychological distress. 1. Bird et al. (1997). Traumatic thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis: An occupational hazard. Am J Emerg Med. 2. Griger et al. (2001). Penile Mondor’s disease in a 22-year-old man. J Am Osteopath Assoc. 3. Khan et al. (1982). New perspectives in diagnosis and management of thrombophlebitis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis. J Dermatol Surg Oncol. 4. Nazir et al. (2010). Thrombosis of the dorsal vein of the penis (Mondor’s disease): a case report and review of the literature. Indian J Urol. 5. Swierzewski et al. (1993). The management of penile Mondor’s phlebitis: superficial dorsal penile thrombosis. J. Urol. Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH Seth D. Cohen, MD, MPH, is a clinical associate professor of urology and the director of the Sexual Dysfunction Program. He specializes in treating erectile and male urinary dysfunction. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health urologists joined international colleagues in Chicago, April 28–May 1. A Personalized mRNA Vaccine Reduces Melanoma Recurrence Risk Following resection of advanced melanoma, combining a personalized mRNA vaccine with pembrolizumab was shown to reduce the risk of recurrence or death by 44 percent compared to pembrolizumab alone, according to results from the KEYNOTE-942 trial presented at the American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) Annual Meeting 2023 The study represents a landmark in the advancement of personalized cancer vaccines, being the first randomized clinical trial with a control arm to show that a personalized mRNA vaccine improved clinical outcomes compared to an existing treatment. “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma.” “These data provide the first evidence that we can improve upon the rates of recurrence-free survival achieved by PD-1 blockade in resected high-risk melanoma,” , principal investigator of the study and deputy director of NYU Langone Health’s , said in a statement. “These findings also provide the first randomized evidence that a personalized neoantigen approach is potentially beneficial for cancer patients.” Directing T cells to the Tumor With the capacity to encode a tailored combination of up to 34 neoantigen sequences, the mRNA vaccine is designed to initiate an immune response to cancer based on a patient’s unique tumor mutations. According to vaccine developers, the optimal combination of neoantigen sequences is identified in only two hours using an algorithm that analyzes DNA and RNA sequencing data, and roughly six weeks is required for vaccine manufacturing. Once administered, the neoantigen sequences are translated and undergo antigen processing and presentation, directing T cells to attack the cancer. Improved Outcomes, Well Tolerated The study enrolled 157 patients with cutaneous melanoma metastatic to a lymph node or to distant sites and at high risk of recurrence. All patients had complete resection of their melanoma and were randomly assigned 2:1 to receive either the combination treatment or pembrolizumab alone, with the mRNA vaccine administered for a total of 9 doses. In addition to improved recurrence-free survival, the mRNA vaccine was well tolerated, and the adverse event profiles for both the vaccine and pembrolizumab were consistent with past trials . The majority of adverse events were low grade, and the most common vaccine-related adverse event was fatigue. Furthermore, no potentiation of immune-mediated adverse events was seen with the addition of the mRNA vaccine to pembrolizumab. Based on the promising findings, a phase 3 trial will open in 2023 for patients with melanoma, with plans to launch trials of the vaccine in other cancer types soon. Dr. Weber is a paid consultant for Merck and Moderna. A Mid-Treatment Pivot to Trimodal Therapy Many patients with bladder cancer are electing bladder-preserving strategies over radical cystectomy due to reservations over the procedure’s significant morbidity and impact on quality of life. A recent case at NYU Langone Health exemplifies the complexities of such a decision, with a patient with T2 muscle-invasive disease foregoing a previously planned surgery for trimodal therapy (TMT). “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity,” says urologic oncologist . “Given patient interest in TMT as well as other bladder-preserving treatments, there is a great need for clinical trials designed to guide recommendations.” Reservations Regarding Surgery The patient, a male in his early 80s, presented with gross hematuria (>180 red blood cells), urine cytology positive for cancerous cells, and a 4-centimeter bladder mass on the left lateral wall visible by CT urography. He immediately had surgery to remove the tumor, and pathology revealed high-grade urothelial carcinoma with squamous differentiation invasive into the muscularis propria. The patient initially agreed to have a radical cystectomy and completed four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (gemcitabine and cisplatin). With no evidence of residual or metastatic disease, he was cleared for surgery but expressed resistance to urinary diversion and an unwillingness to proceed with the treatment plan. A multidisciplinary tumor board then deemed the patient a candidate for TMT, which the patient agreed to, viewing the chance to preserve bladder function as a welcome relief. Success with Trimodal Therapy Since completing TMT, which involved repeat transurethral resection followed by weekly cisplatin and 55 Gray intensity-modulated radiation, the patient has remained disease-free. The patient tolerated TMT well, developing only mild urinary hesitancy successfully managed with tamsulosin. “This is an excellent example of how multimodal therapy can lead to treatment outcomes similar to radical cystectomy in certain patients, and with far less morbidity.” Critical to success with TMT is appropriate patient selection and strict adherance to the intense treatment schedule, Dr. Barlow says. “Candidates for TMT include patients with organ-confined muscle-invasive bladder cancer and significant medical comorbidities that would make them poor candidates for radical cystectomy, a major surgery with a high complication rate when performed by even the most skilled surgeon,” says Dr. Barlow. “Additionally, TMT is an option for certain patients with muscle-invasive disease localized to the bladder with a strong preference to avoid a urinary diversion.” Management of disease recurrence should be discussed with patients before initiating TMT as salvage radical cystectomy may be recommended and is associated with higher overall morbidity than primary radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow notes. Advancing New Treatments While there is much interest in TMT, so far no randomized controlled trial has successfully compared TMT to neoadjuvent chemotherapy plus radical cystectomy, Dr. Barlow says. Such studies, combined with ongoing trials evaluating TMT with immunotherapy, are critical next steps to guiding best practices for those with muscle-invasive disease seeking bladder-preserving treatment. LaMont J. Barlow, MD, is an assistant professor of urology and pathology. He specializes in the treatment of bladder and prostate cancer. Blood-Based Test Predicts Cancer Recurrence & Toxicity from Adjuvant Immunotherapy A novel research test that detects changes in a panel of serum autoantibodies has the potential to predict which patients treated with adjuvant immunotherapies are likely to have their cancer recur or have severe immune-related adverse events, according to a Clinical Cancer Research Developed by investigators at NYU Langone Health’s , the test may help physicians and patients make more informed treatment decisions. “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers.” “The fact that we identified a composite signature of 283 autoantibodies shows that the biological phenomena underlying recurrence and toxicity are complex and cannot be driven by 1 or 2 biomarkers,” says , senior author of the study and the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the and a member of Perlmutter Cancer Center. Revealing Hidden Susceptibility The current work focused on patients with melanoma who received adjuvant therapy with either of two leading checkpoint inhibitors, nivolumab or ipilimumab, or a combination of the two agents, as part of large phase 3 clinical trials. The research team suspected that certain patients might have higher levels of key autoantibodies before treatment, but not enough to be detected clinically as autoimmune disease. This hidden susceptibility would then be triggered by checkpoint inhibitors to cause immune-related adverse events. A Score-Based Prediction System For the study, the researchers obtained blood samples from 950 patients enrolled in either CheckMate 238 CheckMate 915 , both phase 3 randomized controlled trials of adjuvant checkpoint inhibitors in patients with advanced melanoma. Tumors in these patients had been surgically removed, and blood samples collected were before they received treatment. The new research test employs a protein microarray containing over 21,000 proteins, covering more than 81 percent of the human proteome. When an antibody in a blood sample recognizes any of the proteins present on the microarray, those spots glow with the signal intensifying as the concentration of antibody increases. Based on the newly identified panel of autoantibodies, and using statistical modeling, co-senior author Judy Zhong, PhD , a professor of population health, developed a score-based prediction system for each treatment. Patients with a high autoantibody recurrence score were found to have quicker disease return than those with a lower score. Similarly, patients with higher pretreatment autoantibody toxicity scores were significantly more likely to develop severe immune-related adverse events than those with lower scores. Importantly, the autoantibody recurrence signature outperformed a clinical model that is the current benchmark for identifying patients likely to respond to immunotherapy. “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events.” “A unique feature of this panel is that it can simultaneously risk-stratify patients according to their likelihood of experiencing recurrence and developing severe immune-related adverse events,” says Dr. Zhong. Further Testing Ahead Although the current findings support the predictive utility of the autoantibody scores by comparing them with data from clinical trials, more research is needed to validate the value of such a test in the clinic, and to better understand the relationship between autoantibodies, recurrence, and toxicity. NYU Langone researchers plan to test the predictive value of autoantibody signatures in patients with the other cancer types for which checkpoint inhibitors are currently approved for use. Iman Osman, MD, is the Rudolf L. Baer Professor of Dermatology in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology, a professor of medicine and urology, associate dean for clinical research strategy, and the director of the Interdisciplinary Melanoma Cooperative Group. Her research focuses on melanoma. Judy Zhong, PhD, is a professor of population health. Her methodological research interests focus on causal biomarker identification, bias correction for odds ratios from genomic analysis, and high-dimensional directed network inference. Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? A groundbreaking study reveals toxic fatty acids are to blame. Blocking astrocyte production of toxic lipoproteins in mice preserved 75 percent of neurons. When production was not blocked, only 10 percent of neurons survived. ADAPTED FROM: Nature, 2021 Nov;599(7883):102-107. , has long known astrocytes in the brain release a toxin in response to neurodegeneration, but until now, the toxic molecule’s identity has remained a mystery. Dr. Liddelow and colleagues sifted through thousands of lipids, proteins, and metabolites generated by astrocytes. They found certain fats in high abundance: long-chain saturated fatty acids and phosphatidylcholines. Results of the experiments, , show damaged brain cells in mice are killed by the fats. Healthy cells are resistant. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death.” Further, the study found blocking formation of these fats in mice mitigates neurodegeneration, preserving 75 percent of neurons as compared to only 10 percent in mice that still produced the toxins. “Toxic fatty acids produced by astrocytes play a critical role in brain cell death and provide a promising new target for treating, and perhaps even preventing, many neurodegenerative diseases,” Dr. Liddelow says. The study offers detailed molecular insight into how tissue damage might lead to brain cell death across neurodegenerative diseases, including in Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s, Huntington’s, and multiple sclerosis, he adds. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the AAN Annual Meeting NYU Langone experts joined other world leaders in Seattle for five days of innovation, education, and networking at the 2022 annual meeting of the American Academy of Neurology. Below are some highlights of more than 30 presentations featuring NYU Langone physicians and researchers. View the full list of our presenters “The Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC) Experience in an Outpatient Neurology Setting” ; presenters Sujata Thawani, Rachel Kenney, Lisena Hasanaj, Jennifer Frontera, Azizi Seixas, Steven L. Galetta, Laura Balcer; session name: S18: COVID-19: From Bedside and Beyond “At-Home Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) for Teleinterventions: Safety and Tolerability with Remote Supervision” ; presenters Giuseppina Pilloni, Pamela Best, Allan George, Matthew Lustberg, Ibraheem Mirza, Lana Zhovtis Ryerson, Lauren Krupp, Leigh Charvet; session name: S10: Neuro-rehabilitation: Neuromodulation “Vision-Specific Quality of Life in Patients with Post-Acute Sequelae of COVID-19 (PASC)” ; presenters Peyton Meyer, Lisena Hasanaj, Rachel Kenney, Steven L. Galetta, Sujata Thawani, Laura Balcer; session name: P18: Neuro-ophthalmology Research: Vision 2 “Leading Under Adversity,” Steven L. Galetta, the Philip K. Moskowitz, MD Professor and Chair of Neurology “Top 10 Clinical, Educational and Administrative Pearls,” Exploring Remote Neuromodulation for Multiple Sclerosis Why Do Brain Cells Die in Neurodegenerative Diseases? In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 Immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 were impaired in some patients receiving disease-modifying therapies. 212-263-0462 NTM Patient Education Program At NYU Langone’s Bronchiectasis and Nontuberculous Mycobacteria (NTM) Program, our healthcare team uses its dedication, experience, and research know-how to provide treatments that can improve the lives and life spans of people who have chronic lung ailments. nontuberculous mycobacterial (NTM) infections affect the lungs’ ability to clear mucus from airways. This buildup of fluid affects lung function and increases the chance of infection. Our program brings together a team of pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, infectious disease specialists, otolaryngologists, thoracic surgeons, physiatrists, respiratory therapists, physical therapists, and nutritionists who specialize in chest care to create a treatment plan that best meets the needs of each patient. Patients in our program work with a team of experts, including pulmonologists, gastroenterologists, and respiratory therapists. Our team is also committed to increasing education about these conditions. We host a patient education program on bronchiectasis and NTM infections that is aimed at helping patients better understand the condition and the treatment options available to them. Nontuberculous Mycobacteria Patient Education Program Discover the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. Learn More About Our NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone is a nationally recognized referral center for the treatment of people with bronchiectasis, NTM infections, and cystic fibrosis. Our physicians have treated more than 2,000 patients with these conditions, making us one of the leading care centers in the country. We are fully accredited by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. Clinical and Translational Research in Bronchiectasis, NTM, and Cystic Fibrosis We are dedicated to research in bronchiectasis, NTM, and cystic fibrosis. Our researchers conduct multidisciplinary clinical and translational research . This program enables our experts to integrate research findings with clinical care. We participate in the national research registry and have multiple clinical trials available to patients. Our physicians are leaders in the management of bronchiectasis, nontuberculous mycobacteria infections, and cystic fibrosis. They are actively involved in research initiatives to better understand these conditions and develop new therapies. Bronchiectasis Program Co-Director David L. Kamelhar Ashwin Basavaraj Bronchiectasis Program Associate Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Director Adult Cystic Fibrosis Program Associate Director Leopoldo N. Segal Director, NYU Langone Translational Lung Biology Laboratory Cystic Fibrosis Center We help children and adults with cystic fibrosis manage symptoms and offer effective therapies. We treat people with conditions that affect the airway and make breathing difficult. We provide cardiac and pulmonary rehabilitation. Specialists at NYU Langone’s Airway Center are uniquely qualified to address respiratory conditions, sleep-disordered breathing, and hearing and speech difficulties that may result from upper airway problems. Our experts evaluate and treat people who have associated with a craniofacial problem or cleft palate, and the resonance disorders that can occur if there are obstructions in the nose, mouth, or pharynx, which is where the nasal passages connect to the mouth and throat. Our team members collaborate closely with you and your family as well as with NYU Langone craniofacial experts Meet Our Team Our airway experts include an otolaryngologist, pulmonologist, pediatric nurse practitioner, and speech-language pathologist. Scott M. Rickert David A. Staffenberg 212-263-7710 212-263-2828 At NYU Langone’s Adrenal Surgery Program, people with adrenal disease can receive treatment from our team of experts—endocrinologists, cardiologists, radiologists, and laparoscopic endocrine surgeons—on the same day, at one location. Our specialists treat a range of adrenal conditions, including the following: adrenal tumors adrenocortical carcinoma aldosteroma, also known as Conn’s syndrome The adrenal glands—small organs located on the top of each kidney—produce multiple hormones that are important for your body to function. Adrenal disease occurs when there is a tumor on the adrenal gland, or when there is a hyperactive gland. Tumors of the adrenal glands are often hormonally active, and may result in high blood pressure, rapid heart rate, headache, sweating, easy bruising, fatigue, fluid retention, low potassium levels, and additional symptoms. Early detection by an experienced care team is very important. Whether your doctor recommends surgery or another approach, physicians at our Adrenal Surgery Program use minimally invasive techniques for the majority of patients. Most adrenal surgeries at NYU Langone require just three to four tiny incisions, using a camera and special instruments—what’s known as laparoscopic adrenalectomy. This permits faster recovery, an earlier return to work and other activities, less pain, and more favorable cosmetic results than conventional “open” surgery. Our surgeons have specialized training in laparoscopic surgery, and perform the surgery with dedicated nursing teams and specialized rooms. Almost all patients return home 24 to 48 hours after surgery or other type of adrenal procedure. Our team includes experts in adrenal surgery, endocrinology, nephrology, and interventional radiology. David T. Liu Manish S. Parikh 212-263-0906 Experts in NYU Langone’s Bloodless Medicine and Surgery Program use a variety of techniques to limit or avoid the use of blood transfusions and blood products during surgery or other medical procedures. These strategies, known as bloodless surgery or patient blood management, are aimed at minimizing the use of donor blood or blood products such as red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma, and platelets. Patient Blood Management During COVID-19 Our experts discuss issues related to patient blood management during the pandemic. Our team is highly trained in the latest patient blood management techniques and technology that can reduce blood loss and conserve blood during procedures. Minimally invasive robotic surgery typically helps decrease blood loss through the use of tiny incisions and smaller surgical tools. Our surgeons are skilled in performing these types of procedures in many specialty areas, including , including hip and knee surgery. Research shows that people who avoid receiving blood transfusions have fewer infections and allergic reactions, a faster recovery, and a shorter hospital stay. They can also have fewer complications after surgery. A bloodless approach to treatment also helps prevent exposure to blood-borne viruses and infections. Many people prefer not to have blood transfusions for religious, medical, or personal reasons. Our team believes in supporting your right as a patient to make informed decisions involving your care. We respect your beliefs and work with you to accommodate individual blood management needs and preferences. After meeting with you to discuss blood management options, our doctors, nurses, pharmacists, and other support staff work together to create a treatment plan. We offer various blood conservation techniques and tools to reduce the potential need for blood transfusions before, during, and after surgery. Our team of experts helps prepare you for surgery by screening you for anemia, a condition that develops when your blood does not have enough healthy red blood cells. If necessary, we provide treatment for anemia and ensure adequate levels of hemoglobin, the protein in red blood cells that transports oxygen throughout the body. Appointments and Referrals A dedicated coordinator works with you, your family, and your doctors to answer your questions. We also provide assistance with doctor referrals and education about your treatment options. For physicians wishing to refer a patient to our program, to schedule an inpatient consult, or for questions about patient rights and bloodless surgery options, please call us at #bloodlessmedicine@nyulangone.org Our program is led by Dr. Seth Perelman, MD, and supported by Sharon Sledge, MA, MS, RN, program coordinator, and Mark Pollard, MHSA, vice president of professional services. Seth Perelman Clinical Lead Nicole M. Adler Alexandra L. Argiroff Deborah M. Axelrod Breast Cancer Surgeon Myint M. Aye Karl Bednarek Nina Beri Gastrointestinal Oncologist Sheila N. Blumberg Brian P. Bosworth Inflammatory Bowel Disease Doctor James D. Capozzi View All 225 Doctors & 225 Patient and Family Support Visiting Hours View All Locations (6) We have several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island Your Emergency Care Visit At NYU Langone, we know that emergencies can happen anywhere. That’s why we offer emergency care at several locations in Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Long Island, so you can easily access medical treatment for minor and serious injuries and illnesses. Our Commitment to Quality Care We are dedicated to providing one high standard of outstanding care in all of the communities we serve, offering the best outcomes to our patients. Our experts at the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine treat adults and children for minor and serious injuries and medical conditions. Each year, more than 400,000 people visit our emergency care locations. Our doctors and staff provide treatment for adults and children experiencing serious medical conditions including heart attack, stroke, and infections, as well as minor emergencies such as broken bones. Learn about our emergency care services for children provided through When to Seek Emergency Care When you have a serious injury or illness, don’t wait to seek emergency care. Call 911 or go to the nearest emergency department if you are experiencing any of the following symptoms: Our doctors provide immediate care for adults and children who need medical attention for non–life-threatening conditions, injuries, and illnesses. severe abdominal pain coughing or vomiting blood a severe burn a deep cut or bleeding that won’t stop sudden blurred vision difficulty breathing or shortness of breath a seizure sudden dizziness, weakness, or loss of coordination or balance numbness in the face, arm, or leg sudden, severe headache a high fever You should also seek emergency care for any other symptom you think is serious. Our Locations (6) 570 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Emergency Care Wait Time Minutes* 212-263-5550 718-630-7185 332-210-7536 Medical Records Fax 212-598-7600 For minor medical concerns that need care today or tomorrow, schedule a Virtual UrgentCare video visit to video chat with an NYU Langone Health care provider. *Wait time cannot be guaranteed as it is based on patient needs at the time of your arrival. Critically ill patients will be seen immediately. Updated every 5 minutes. Review information to prepare you for a visit to one of our emergency departments. View Information About Your Emergency Department Visit Smoke-Free Policy Weapon-Free Zone $10 Million Gift Boosts Access to World-Class Emergency Care Our Pediatric Experts Offer Tips to Help Kids Weather Summer Tips for Preventing Summertime Injuries in Children Federal Grant Will Fund New Ambulances Virtual Urgent Care Helps Get Nurse Manager to the ER By Tracking Daily Clinical Data, NYU Langone Remains Nimble A Solid Game Plan Ensures Calm Amid the COVID-19 Storm Keeping Patients Safe in Our Emergency Departments In Multiple Sclerosis, DMTs May Affect Immunity to SARS-CoV-2 found that patients on certain disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) for multiple sclerosis (MS) had markedly impaired adaptive immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection, although immune responses did not correlate with COVID-19 clinical severity. Lead researcher , a professor of neurology, says the team was surprised by the findings. “Understanding the impact of DMTs on the immune response to SARS-CoV-2 is critical for counseling patients with MS about COVID-19 risks and determining whether a patient on a particular DMT is likely to derive a similar degree of protective immunity as healthy individuals,” Dr. Kister says. Responses After Natural Infection MS is treated with several therapies that may impair immune responses to SARS-CoV-2 infection. The widely used anti-CD20 (aCD20) therapies have been associated with reduced antibody titers following infection, potentially due to depletion of peripheral B cells that would otherwise be available for recruitment into germinal centers for antigen-mediated activation and clonal expansion. “T cell responses following natural infection in aCD20-treated patients have received less attention, but are an active area of investigation,” Dr. Kister says. “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators” Research Design and Findings Between January and July 2021, 389 patients with clinician-diagnosed MS aged 18 to 60 years were tested for anti-nucleocapsid and anti-spike receptor-binding domain (RBD) antibodies. Antibody responses to spike protein, RBD and N-terminal domain (NTD), and T cell responses to SARS-CoV-2 spike protein were also tested using a variety of assays. The mean age of study participants was 40.3 years; 74 percent were female and 62 percent were non-white. The most common DMTs were ocrelizumab (40 percent), natalizumab (17 percent), and sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulators (12 percent). After testing, 177 patients (46 percent) had laboratory-confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, including 130 symptomatic cases and 47 asymptomatic cases. Among the participants, COVID-19 clinical course was mild overall, with only 9 patients (7 percent) hospitalized–these results did not differ across DMTs. Antibody responses were markedly attenuated in patients treated with ocrelizumab compared to other groups. T cell responses were significantly decreased in patients treated with S1P receptor modulators and increased in patients treated with natalizumab. Cellular and humoral responses were moderately correlated for patients treated with ocrelizumab and for patients treated with non-OCR DMTs. Neither clinical nor immunologic outcomes differed by race/ethnicity. Differences in DMTs “Our relatively young and otherwise healthy MS patients on various DMTs generally had favorable clinical course despite markedly impaired adaptive immune responses associated with some of the DMTs, including aCD20 therapies and S1P receptor modulators,” Dr. Kister says. “It is also reassuring that patients whose B cells were depleted with therapy still had similarly robust T cell memory to infection as did untreated patients.” Based on these results, Dr. Kister and his team are conducting more in-depth studies to better understand the humoral–cellular dissociation in aCD20-treated patients, and to identify predictors of immune response in patients on different DMTs. Ilya Kister, MD, is a professor of neurology and director of the Neuromyelitis Optica Treatment and Research Program. His research interests include the effects of COVID-19 vaccination on antibody response in patients with multiple sclerosis. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Study finds 86 percent become orgasmic by one year after robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, with more regaining ability after one year. Clarifying the Mechanics of Melanoma Metastasis Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD Patients with melanoma develop brain metastasis at a higher rate than those with any other common cancer, with an estimated 40 to 50 percent of stage 4 melanomas spreading to the brain . A new study led by NYU Langone Health researchers implicates proteins better known for their roles in neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease in that metastasis. The study, , demonstrated that amyloid beta (Aβ) is essential for the growth and survival of melanoma cells in brain parenchyma. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it,” says , who led the research team. “This study reveals an unexpected role for tumor-secreted amyloid beta in promoting the survival of melanoma brain metastases, and also suggests a new way to counter it.” In addition to suggesting a key role played by Aβ in advancing metastasis, the team showed in a proof-of-principle demonstration that beta-secretase inhibitors (BACEi) initially developed for Alzheimer’s disease may hold promise in delaying and significantly reducing the growth of brain metastasis in melanoma. “We are trying to repurpose small molecule inhibitors and antibodies that were originally developed to target Aβ,” she says. “It’s very exciting but still early days for testing it.” A New Research Model Previous models of brain metastasis had yielded inconsistent results in differential gene expression. Dr. Hernando-Monge’s research team used a more physiological model consisting of short-term cultures of metastatic melanoma cells resected during patient surgeries to better represent the heterogeneity of the initial tumors. The group then used a proteomics analysis to compare 12 brain metastases with 12 extracranial metastases, including some pairs that had been resected from the same patient. Some of the proteins upregulated in metastatic melanoma are involved in mitochondrial metabolism and scavenging of reactive oxygen species, suggesting a means by which melanoma cells in the brain may tamp down oxidative stress. In addition, the researchers found a significant upregulation of amyloid precursor protein (APP) as well as multiple proteins involved in processing and cleaving APP into Aβ. Dr. Hernando-Monge hypothesizes that melanoma cells arriving in the brain adopt neural-like features and secrete soluble Aβ. Surrounding astrocytes would normally warn of the new threat, prompting microglia to phagocytose the metastatic cells. But Aβ may temper that normal immune response and enlist the astrocytes in a noninflammatory role that promotes growth of melanoma cells instead. The group is now testing BACEi or anti-Aβ antibodies alone and in combination with immunotherapy as a potential treatment for brain metastasis, Dr. Hernando-Monge says. Linking an Epigenetic Regulator to Metastasis A second study led by Dr. Hernando-Monge’s team and has helped clarify why some melanomas metastasize and others don’t, even after being fully resected. “Years later, in some patients, there will be a recurrence or even a distal metastasis,” she says. “But when we compare the stage 1 or 2 tumors that have recurred with those that have not recurred, we don’t see any genetic mutation that distinguishes them.” For years, the lab has hypothesized that epigenetic mechanisms could be drivers of the metastatic behavior. Through a systematic meta-analysis and mini-screen for chromatin-regulating genes consistently altered in metastasis, the group identified a protein called plant homeodomain finger protein 8, or PHF8, that is upregulated in metastatic melanoma cells compared to primary cancer cells. Silencing PHF8, a histone demethylase, via two separate mechanisms had no effect on cell proliferation, but consistently reduced cell invasion in an in vitro assay. In a mouse model, silencing PHF8 also yielded a reduction in metastasis. To shine more light on the potential mechanism, the study in turn characterized how the pro-metastatic TGF-β pathway is regulated by PHF8. Since the epigenetic regulator shares homology with multiple members of the same family, targeting it with sufficient specificity may be difficult. Even so, Dr. Hernando-Monge says other techniques, such as targeting PHF8 for degradation by linking it to a ubiquitin ligase enzyme or targeting other proteins downstream of its regulatory activity, may yet allow the pathway to be targeted therapeutically. “There is much more that this PHF8 story has yet to reveal,” she says. Eva M. Hernando-Monge, PhD, is a professor of pathology and the assistant dean for research integration. She focuses on melanoma and metastasis-related research. Accelerating Innovations in Early-Phase Oncology Trials Janice Mehnert, MD, is among the researchers at Perlmutter Cancer Center conducting early-stage oncology trials. Over the past 30 years there has been a considerable effort on the part of researchers to improve the design and accuracy of early-phase oncology trials . One such effort is the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical Trials Network (ETCTN) , a partnership program sponsored by the National Cancer Institute (NCI)–Cancer Therapy Evaluation Program (CTEP) to evaluate early-phase trials in high-priority areas of unmet need through collaboration with a dozen Lead Academic Organizations (LAOs). has officially joined the ETCTN as part of the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center LAO. , a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research, is serving as site principal investigator (PI) for the network. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” “Joining the ETCTN grants our center access to a broader network of early-stage trials conducted by NCI-CTEP,” Dr. Mehnert says. “This achievement exemplifies the advancement of our clinical trial capabilities, as there are only 12 LAOs nationwide.” Testing Novel Agents in Early-Phase Trials Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH , an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program, is conducting early-stage research and supporting the national execution of new oncology trials, a primary focus of the ETCTN. One NCI Investigational New Drug (NCI-IND) currently under evaluation is peposertib, a selective DNA-PK inhibitor, which showed synergy with radiotherapy and some chemotherapies in preclinical studies. Recent evidence suggests that peposertib could enhance the efficacy of standard therapeutic regimens in selected tumor types. Dr. Spencer is serving as national PI for CTEP protocol 10276 , an NCI-sponsored trial of peposertib in combination with avelumab and hypofractionated radiation therapy in patients with solid tumors and hepatobiliary malignancies. Another NCI-IND is ASTX727, a unique fixed-dose combination of the hypomethylating agent decitabine and the cytidine deaminase inhibitor cedazuridine. When administered in combination with immunotherapy, ASTX727 may help stimulate the body’s immune system to attack cancer, and interfere with the ability of tumor cells to grow and spread. Catherine S. Diefenbach, MD , an associate professor of medicine and director of the Clinical Lymphoma Program, is acting as PI for CTEP protocol 10508 , an NCI-sponsored trial evaluating the combination of ASTX727 and nivolumab for relapsed or refractory B cell lymphoma. “These are two examples of innovative early-phase trials initiated through the ETCTN partnership,” Dr. Spencer says, adding that faculty will have increased opportunities to design investigator-initiated studies with CTEP. Advancing Biomarker Discovery In addition to supporting early-stage clinical trials, the ETCTN also provides support for studies that incorporate biomarker development and molecular characterization of biospecimens. Dr. Spencer anticipates the ETCTN partnership will streamline processes required for coordinated biomarker analyses. On a national level, Dr. Spencer is also chair of the Genomics Subcommittee of the ECOG-ACRIN Cancer Research Group , a membership-based network of nearly 1,300 academic and community-based cancer centers that design and conduct cancer research. Collaboration with Other Research Leaders A key benefit of the ETCTN is the opportunity to partner with other leading cancer centers, including investigators from the Dana-Farber/Harvard Cancer Center and Mayo Clinic Comprehensive Cancer Center, for their own expertise in timely activation and conduction of early-phase oncology trials, says Dr. Mehnert. “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies.” “A big unmet need in early-phase cancer trials is the sharing of best practices and collaboration in the design of new studies. We anticipate ETCTN-based collaborations will open new avenues to further the development of innovative cancer therapies,” Dr. Mehnert says. Janice Mehnert, MD, is a professor of medicine and associate director for clinical research at Perlmutter Cancer Center. She also serves as director of melanoma and cutaneous medical oncology and co-director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program. Her research focus is on the development of novel therapies for skin and other advanced cancers. Kristen Spencer, DO, MPH, is an assistant professor of medicine and director of the Phase 1 Developmental Therapeutics Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research focus is on the development of innovative cancer treatments, including novel immunotherapies and targeted therapies in early stages of clinical development. Plant-Based Diets: Beneficial for Prostate Cancer? Delicious Asian Green Curry with Coconut Milk – vegan and organic with chickpeas, bell pepper, tomatoes, coriander, zucchini, ginger, garlic While plant-based diets are increasingly popular and have many well-established benefits for health, emerging evidence suggests they might also reduce prostate cancer risk. systematic review , clinical assistant professor of urology at NYU Langone Health, and Stacy Loeb, MD, PhD (Hon) , professor of urology and population health, found lifestyle modifications incorporating a plant-based diet were associated with improved oncologic outcomes in men with favorable-risk prostate cancer on active surveillance and those with biochemical recurrence after initial therapy. “Prostate cancer diagnosis is a teachable moment, and studies show that providing counseling about nutrition can lead to sustained improvements in dietary habits among men with prostate cancer,” Dr. Gupta says. Reviewing the Literature The research team searched major databases for studies that included primary data on plant-based dietary patterns and incidence among at-risk men for prostate cancer, or oncologic, general health/nutrition, or quality of life outcomes among patients diagnosed with prostate cancer. They found 31 publications that included a total of 16 interventional and 15 observational studies. The majority of interventional studies showed improvements in short-term oncologic outcomes, alongside improvements in general health and nutrition. Epidemiologic studies primarily focused on prostate cancer risk, showing either protective or null associations for plant-based dietary patterns, while studies of the vegan diet consistently showed favorable associations with risk and/or outcomes. “Our systematic review confirms that plant-based diets may help to prevent prostate cancer and, for patients with prostate cancer, reduce the risk of progression,” Dr. Loeb says. Other Potential Benefits Exploring plant-based dietary patterns is particularly timely as they have been suggested as a potential solution to current global issues including emerging infectious diseases and climate change, the researchers add. “Antibiotic resistance is another major public health threat, and there is increasing concern about the contribution from use of antimicrobial drugs in food-producing animals,” Dr. Gupta says. “Overall, the findings are encouraging in light of the many benefits of plant-based diets for overall health, environmental sustainability, and animal welfare.” Further Research As a follow-up to this review, the researchers are planning a number of interventional studies. “We’re planning a pilot study for firefighters in New York City, which would include plant-based cooking demonstrations to promote healthy dietary shifts and men’s health,” Dr. Gupta says. “Providing guidance about healthy dietary patterns is a key component of holistic care.” Natasha Gupta, MD, is a clinical assistant professor of urology and a postdoctoral scholar in population health. Her research and clinical interests focus on sexual health, plant-based diets, and cancer survivorship. Presenters at the 2023 AUA Annual Meeting This spring, NYU Langone Health’s experts joined colleagues from around the world at the American Urological Association’s 2023 annual meeting in Chicago. Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and trainees this year. See additional highlights here Friday, April 28 Office-Based Therapies : Society of Urodynamics, Female Pelvic Medicine & Urogenital Reconstruction (SUFU) Panelist : 12:40–1:20 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom A Debate Topic: Mini PCNL vs. Ureteroscopy for Medium-Sized Stones : Indian American Urological Association (IAUA) Debater Areeba Sadiq, MD : 8:30–8:45 am : Hyatt Regency McCormick Jackson Park MP19-14 Who Receives Third Line Therapies for Overactive Bladder? Trends from Data in the AUA AQUA Registry : Katherine Shapiro, MD NYU Langone Co-Authors : Dora Jericevic Schwartz, MD, : S401A MP14-01: Evaluation of a Novel Cystoscopic Cryocatheter for the Destruction of Bladder Cancer Anthony Corcoran, MD Aaron E. Katz, MD : S403 MP19-12: The Telemed Vasectomy Consult is a Safe Alternative to In-person Consults: A Retrospective Study in a High-Volume Center : Phillip Westbrook, MD Richard A. Schoor, MD 3:30–5:30 pm MP19-13: No Detectable Association between Virtual Setting for Vasectomy Consultation and Vasectomy Completion Rate : Ari Bernstein, MD : Hunter Hernandez, Ethan Zhu, Bryce Saba, Eli Rapoport, MD, Saturday, April 29 Podium Session PD12-09: Outcomes of 429 Primary Robotic Peritoneal Flap Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty Cases : Gaines Blasdel : Charles Dubach-Reinhold; Elijah Castle, : 8:20–8:30 am : S401C PD12-10: Does Body Mass Index Influence Vaginoplasty Outcomes? : Elijah Castle : 8:30–8:40 am PD15-12: Impact of MRI Detected Hydrogel Spacer Rectal Wall Infiltration on Radiation-Related Toxicity Following 5-Fraction Prostate Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy Jonathan Haas, MD , Vianca Santos, MPH, Christopher Mendez, MA, CCRP, Astrid Sanchez, MS; Ankur M. Doshi, MD Angela Tong, MD : 8:50–9 am : S502 MP34-15: The Role of Ferroptosis in Neutrophils-Mediated Innate Immune Defense Against Urinary Tract Infection Yan Liu, PhD : 9:30–11:30 am : S405 Collaboration with Academic Institutions and International Independent Practice Research Symposium 11:04–11:13 am : N427A Q&A with Session Speakers : Independent Practice Research Symposium : 11:13–11:20 am MP42-13: Robotic Non-transecting Ureteral Reimplantation: A Multi-Institutional Experience : Brian Chao, MD : S505 MP45-10: Understanding the Sexual Health Concerns and Needs of Female Partners of Prostate Cancer Survivors : Nataliya Byrne, Tatiana Sanchez Nolasco, MPH, : S404C Sunday, April 30 My Pathway to Focal Therapy: Rationale for Novel Treatment of Prostate Cancer : Engineering and Urology Section of the Endourolgical Society (EUS) : 10:31–10:45 am : Marriott Marquis Chicago-Grand Horizon Ballroom A Plenary Presentation State of the Art Lecture: Role of Estrogen in Treatment of FSD, GSM, and UTIs : 1–1:15 pm : Hall B1 Podium Session MP61-18: Stimulated Raman Histology, a Novel Method for Intraoperative Surgical Margin Assessments During Robotic Assisted Laparoscopic Prostatectomy : Miles P. Mannas, MD, Fang-Ming Deng, MD, PhD Samir S. Taneja, MD Active Surveillance 2.0: Impact of MRI and Biomarkers on Surveillance Strategy : Urological Society for American Veterans (USAV) : 1:35–1:55 pm : Hyatt Regency McCormick-Regency Ballroom C PD35-03 Robotic Posterior Urethroplasty: 105 Cases From a Single Center : Alex Wang, MD Ashley V. Alford, MD : 3:40–4 pm PD38-07: Stimulated Raman Histology Interpretation by Artificial Intelligence Can Provide Real-Time Pathologic Feedback of Prostate Biopsies Derek H. Jones, MD Deepthi Hoskoppal, MD Jonathan Melamed, MD : 4:30­–4:40 pm GU Robotic Reconstruction : 4:30–5:30 pm Monday, May 1 MP73-14: Biopsy Assessment of Oncologic Control Three Years Following Primary Partial Gland Cryoablation (PPGCA) : Eli Rapoport, MD, Rozalba Gogaj, MD, MPH, : 7–9 am : S504 Presenters at the 2022 ASCO Annual Meeting PHOTO: Christopher Alvarenga via Unsplash This June, our researchers and physicians joined colleagues from around the world at the annual ASCO meeting in Chicago. This year’s program featured over 200 sessions complementing the meeting’s theme: Advancing Equitable Cancer Care Through Innovation . View Below are notable sessions featuring our faculty and fellows this year (see full listings of presenters at the links provided). June 4 Cancer: Common Humanity, Different Worlds Speaker: Kevin Diasti, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Arie Crown Theater Doubling Down on Immunotherapy Kristen Renee Spencer, DO, MPH , director, Phase I Program, Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Cancer Center at NYU, assistant professor of medicine, NYU Grossman School of Medicine Poster Session Experiences of researchers fulfilling VHA’s “fourth mission” during the COVID-19 pandemic. Presenter: Kenneth Csehak, MD, fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Safety and efficacy of daratumumab use in patients with renal impairment and hemodialysis. Presenter: Mateusz Niewinski, BA, BPS, PharmD, pharmacy resident, NYU Langone Health June 5 Endometrial Cancer Barriers in the LGBTQ Community Gwendolyn Quinn, PhD , the Livia S. Wan, M.D. Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, professor, Department of Population Health Location: E253b | In-Person Only TAK-676 in combination with pembrolizumab after radiation therapy in patients (pts) with advanced non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), or squamous-cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN): Phase 1 study design. Benjamin Thomas Cooper, MD , assistant professor, Department of Radiation Oncology BASECAMP-1: Leveraging human leukocyte antigen (HLA) loss of heterozygosity (LOH) in solid tumors by next-generation sequencing (NGS) to identify patients with relapsed solid tumor for future logic-gated Tmod CAR T-cell therapy. Presenter: Diane M. Simeone, MD, the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Surgery, Departments of Surgery and Pathology Phase 1 results of a phase 1/2 trial of CYT-0851, a first-in-class inhibitor of RAD51-mediated homologous recombination, in patients with advanced solid and hematologic cancers. , clinical assistant professor, Department of Medicine at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, medical oncologist, Perlmutter Cancer Center June 6 Examination of speakership gender disparity at an international oncology conference. Presenter: Jessica Caro, MD, chief fellow, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: E350 PD-1 Plus X: Which Combinations in Early Development Are Showing the Most Promise? , professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: S100a Activity of adagrasib (MRTX849) in patients with KRASG12C-mutated NSCLC and active, untreated CNS metastases in the KRYSTAL-1 trial. Joshua K. Sabari, MD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology Location: Hall D1 Racial concordance and trust in health communications: A randomized trial of videos about prostate cancer. , professor, Departments of Urology, and Population Health A phase 1/2 study of BLU-945 in patients with common activating EGFR -mutant non–small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): SYMPHONY trial in progress. What is driving declines in oncology-prescribed opioids? Presenter: Tarlise Townsend, PhD, postdoctoral fellow, Department of Population Health, Division of Epidemiology, NYU Langone Health Center for Opioid Epidemiology & Policy ARTISTRY-6: Nemvaleukin alfa monotherapy in patients with advanced mucosal and cutaneous melanoma. , the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Professor of Oncology, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology A phase 1/2 multicenter investigator-initiated trial of DKN-01 as monotherapy or in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). David R. Wise, MD, PhD , assistant professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Department of Urology Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer Cryoablation is an established therapeutic option for patients with radiation-recurrent prostate cancer. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules New research projects, clinical initiatives aim to clarify risk factors and improve screening. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Researchers are testing a more proactive approach to address screening inequities. The Uncertainty of Avoiding Radical Cystectomy Patient’s CT urogram prior to enrollment in CheckMate 9UT. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff Bladder Preservation Poses a Difficult Dilemma Having deferred radical cystectomy for years, a patient with a long history of recurrent high-risk non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC), who became unresponsive to bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG), responded well after ultimately undergoing surgery and urinary diversion. Gary D. Steinberg, MD , director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at , the case is representative of a common clinical conundrum—is it safe to defer or avoid radical cystectomy for BCG-unresponsive high-risk disease? While radical cystectomy is highly curative, many patients decline to undergo the procedure due to the life-altering consequences and reduced quality of life. “The risk of progression to muscle invasion and/or metastatic disease is greatly increased for patients with high-grade non-muscle invasive bladder cancer that does not respond to BCG,” Dr. Steinberg says. “In general, progression may occur within six to 12 months.” The patient, a white male in his 70s, was initally diagnosed in 2011 with T1 high-grade NMIBC. In addition to BCG, his prior treatment history included mitomycin-C and interferon (IFN)-α. “The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes.” After presenting to NYU Langone Health in 2019 for evaluation and management, the patient was diagnosed with BCG-unresponsive carcinoma of the bladder and counselled on radical cystectomy—being the standard of care per national and international guidelines—as well as alternative therapies and clinical trials. Aiming to preserve his bladder, the patient opted to enroll in CheckMate 9UT * . He was assigned to the three-drug arm and began treatment. When pathology revealed recurrence at six-month follow-up, the patient elected to undergo radical cystectomy and ileal conduit urinary diversion. Due to urothelial carcinoma involving the prostatic urethra, urinary diversion through orthotopic neobladder reconstruction was contraindicated. The patient regained significant function four weeks after surgery and currently shows no evidence of disease. The patient reports improved quality of life with his ileal conduit urinary diversion which has eliminated his irritative voiding symptoms and incontinence episodes,” Dr. Steinberg says. The CheckMate 9UT trial closed without reaching accrual goals due to low patient enrollment caused by the BCG shortage and the COVID-19 pandemic Enrollment in the CheckMate 9UT Trial The patient presented with a history of high-risk NMIBC that persisted and recurred despite intravesical BCG immunotherapy. Choosing to avoid radical cystectomy, the patient elected to enroll in CheckMate 9UT, a phase 2 combination immunotherapy study, and was enrolled to the three-drug arm—nivolumab with linrodostat with BCG. Cancer Recurrence Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff After completing treatment, complete response was noted at first response assessment. However, cystoscopy at six-month follow-up revealed a multifocal necrotic tumor as well as multiple papillary/sessile tumors with more than 5 centimeters bladder involvement. Pathology confirmed carcinoma of the right bladder wall, anterior bladder wall, and prostatic urethra. Observations During Radical Cystectomy Image from cystoscopy revealing diffuse erythema, inflammation, and carcinoma in situ. SOURCE: NYU Langone Staff The patient ultimately elected radical cystectomy and urinary diversion. While the surgery was uncomplicated, during the procedure the patient was noted to have bilateral hydroureteronephrosis, dense pelvic lymph nodes with some enlarged lymph nodes, dense scar tissue and fibrosis, and a short, thick wall intestinal mesentery. Gary D. Steinberg, MD, is a professor of urology and director of the Goldstein Urology Bladder Cancer Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in radical cystectomy and urinary tract reconstruction and leads multiple clinical trials investigating new medications and procedures for the treatment of bladder cancer. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation Research explores a new modeling technique for personalized, precision treatment. Mapping the Opportunity for Focal Therapy Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line A slew of new treatments may help ease reliance on BCG, radical cystectomy. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology Research reveals urologic misinformation abounds, but also opportunities to advance patient care and equity. Prostate Cancer Screening: Can Community-Based Intervention Improve Engagement? Black men are disproportionately affected by prostate cancer, which is is the second leading cause of cancer death among men in the U.S., although mortality has dropped since the adoption of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening. recommend a shared decision-making approach to PSA screening between at-risk men and their healthcare providers. , an associate professor of urology and population health and , an associate professor of population health and medicine, have initiated a randomized clinical trial to evaluate whether a community health worker (CHW)-led decision coaching model can be a feasible, low-cost intervention to improve patient decision-making for prostate cancer screening among Black male patients and their healthcare providers. The trial is funded by the National Institute on Minority Health and Health Disparities and is done in partnership with Flatbush Family Health Clinic. Pervasive Disparities Why are Black men disproportionately affected by prostate cancer? Dr. Makarov: Prostate cancer comprises approximately one third of all new cancers in Black men, but the incidence rate is 70 percent higher for Black men compared with other groups, and mortality is 2-3 times higher relative to white men. “Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes.” Previous data have shown that low socioeconomic status is a predictor of poor prostate cancer outcomes, including mortality, but the Black/white disparity persists even when adjusting for other factors. Our hypothesis is that differences in PSA screening rates are a signficant contributer to racial disparity in outcomes. CHWs Support Shared Decision-Making Can you explain shared decision-making in the context of PSA screening and your research? An informed decision-making, or shared decision-making approach, to PSA screening includes three critical steps: information exchange, deliberation, and ultimately a shared decision between the patient and healthcare provider. Most prostate cancer screening decisions do not meet the criteria for this as they lack a balanced discussion of decision consequences and preference clarification. We believe that shared decision-making is very important especially for Black men, among whom the balance of risks and benefits is not definitively established, but likely favors screening. What is unique about a CHW-led intervention model? Dr. Ravenell: The strength of the CHW model is derived from its roots of community organizing, social support, social networks, self-efficacy, and peer models. In general, it’s an effective model in communities that need a culturally sensitive, contextualized approach to health promotion and intervention. Prior research, including work by our team at NYU Langone Health , suggests CHWs are effective in supporting cancer screening decisions in the Black community. Testing the CHW-Led Intervention What are you hoping to learn from this trial and how does it work? Our study has four aims To test whether a CHW-led decision coaching program affects decision quality, the decision-making process, patient-provider communication, and PSA utilization for Black men in the primary care setting; To assess whether a CHW-led decision coaching program improves provider experience with counseling Black men considering PSA screening; To determine the cost and budget impact of a CHW-led decision coaching program for PSA screening; and To assess participant attitudes, behaviors, and norms around PSA screening, and assess perceptions of the feasibility, acceptability, and sustainability of CHW-led decision coaching in the primary care setting. The study is being conducted at a primary care clinic in Brooklyn. Participants in the intervention arm will receive a decision aid by mail and CHW-led decision coaching on PSA screening one hour before their appointment, while those in the control arm will receive the same decision aid by mail, but have a CHW-led discussion on cardiovascular dietary and lifestyle modification rather than PSA screening. The discussion of cardiovascular risk reduction serves as an attention control. What is the current status of the trial? Do you have any preliminary results? This trial is ongoing. Recruitment started in June 2019 and we are still accruing. The trial procedures are expected to be completed by the end of March 2023. What other equity and minority health initiatives are ongoing at NYU Langone Health? We have a range of initiatives led or coordinated by our centered on the promotion of equity and health for all our patients. Danil V. Makarov, MD, is an associate professor of urology and population health and director of surgical research in the Department of Population Health. His research interests include the development of new interventions to address prostate cancer disparities among underserved populations. Joseph Ravenell, MD is an associate professor of population health and medicine, and associate dean for diversity and inclusion. His research interests include developing and testing novel community-engaged strategies to improve cancer screening and cardiovascular disease prevention among underserved populations. Tackling Nonspecific Lung Nodules Over the last several years, NYU Langone Health has built a rapidly growing program to expand access to lung cancer screening , regardless of a patient’s ability to pay. This effort is not only improving early detection, but also increasing the frequency at which physicians are faced with complex decisions about nonspecific lung nodules. “About 30 percent of people getting lung cancer screening will have nonspecific nodules, and we don’t know what they mean,” says . “The question is, which one of those nodules is going to change? And can we predict that earlier?” To pave the way for clear, informed treatment recommendations for nonspecific lung nodules, NYU Langone investigators have launched several research projects and clinical initiatives, all with the central focus of better understanding which nodules are and are not likely to be cancerous. A Focus on Risk Factors in Nonsmokers To elucidate risk factors and biomarkers, the investigators have turned their attention to the surprisingly high proportion of lung cancers in nonsmokers. “Between 15 to 20 percent of lung cancers are found in nonsmokers,” says Dr. Chachoua. “This is a different disease in terms of molecular features. Even the demographics tend to be younger.” An initial focus of this work is on Asian women. Over 40 percent of Asian women diagnosed with lung cancer are nonsmokers—roughly double the rate of the general population—and the cause is unclear. In an ongoing three-year study led by , an oncologist and assistant professor of medicine, nonsmoking Asian American women in the New York City area will receive an annual low-dose CT chest scan, donate blood samples, and provide information on family history and environmental and World Trade Center dust exposures. The goal is two-pronged: to determine lung cancer incidence in Asian American women and build a database and biorepository that can be used to identify factors that contribute to the development of cancerous nodules. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer.” Currently, there are over 80 participants enrolled, of which 73 have completed initial CT scans. “Two cancers have been found in this group, which is an incidence of 2.7 percent. That is similar to the incidence of lung cancer in smokers,” Dr. Chachoua says. “Our study continues to increase its enrollment, but these early cases are encouraging that our idea to screen another potential high-risk population may be of benefit,” Dr. Shum adds. “As we continue to screen, we are also gathering important information to better understand the pathogenesis of lung cancer, not just in Asian women nonsmokers but in all nonsmokers.” Detecting Patterns in DNA Fragments A concurrent biomarker study is assessing whether fragments of tumor DNA in peripheral blood yield patterns indicative of lung cancer. The study is led by Dr. Shum, , director of the Division of Hematology and Medical Oncology, and Jun-Chieh J. Tsay, MD , an assistant professor of medicine, in collaboration with Delfi Diagnostics. The goal is to assess whether patients who are screened and ultimately found to have cancerous nodules have a different DNA fragmentation pattern than those who are screened and aren’t found to have lung cancer. “All of the patients enrolled in our study of lung cancer in nonsmoking Asian American females have had this test done,” explains Dr. Chachoua. “It will be interesting to see whether the two patients identified with cancer will have unique signatures by DNA fragmentation. That will be a big innovation for the field.” Diverse Research Ahead Additional research projects on the horizon will evaluate whether breath tests or readouts from the lung microbiome can be used to detect cancerous nodules. Dr. Chachoua also notes an interest addressing why a low percentage of patients eligible for screening come in to receive a scan. “We’ve had 655 referrals since we started the lung cancer screening program. About 40 percent are eligible for screening, and out of the eligible patients only 67 percent got their scan,” Dr. Chachoua says. “We’re going to do a population science study in that area to address the gap.” Assembling Experts to Review Nonspecific Nodules Another notable development is the formation of a lung nodule review board, which reviews all nodules with Lung-RADS scores of 3 or 4—those that are of high suspicion to become cancer. “After forming this dedicated team, we found that about 26 percent of the reports changed, and some of those changes led to earlier identification of cancers,” Dr. Chachoua says. Dr. Chachoua says a full account of how the review board is helping to elevate the treatment of suspicious nodules will be presented at an upcoming national meeting. Abraham Chachoua, MD, is Jay and Isabel Fine Professor of Oncology, section chief of medical oncology, and director of the Lung Cancer Center at Perlmutter Cancer Center. He specializes in treatment of cancers of the lung and chest. Elaine Shum, MD, is an assistant professor of medicine. She specializes in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, and other thoracic cancers. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting NYU Langone Health physicians joined their colleagues at the American Urologic Association annual conference in New Orleans, May 13 - 16. Salvage Cryoablation for Radiation-Recurrent Prostate Cancer MRI 12 months following salvage cryotherapy. Red arrow indicates area of ablation. Salvage Cryoablation Following RT Failure For individuals with locally recurrent prostate cancer , salvage cryotherapy has become a preferred treatment option with curative potential. , professor of urology and an early pioneer of the technique, explains that while therapy for patients with radiation-recurrent disease needs to be individualized, salvage cryoablation is often a treatment of choice for patients in this setting. “Cryotherapy ablates all tissue in a targeted area, which allows us to freeze and destroy tissue beyond the confines of the prostate gland, offering an advantage compared to other treatment options,” says Dr. Katz. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting. It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” Importance of PSA Monitoring Monitoring prostate-specific antigen (PSA) after treatment of localized disease can lead to the detection of biochemical recurrence. In many cases, rises in serum PSA above baseline do not co-occur with symptoms of recurrent prostate cancer. “For patients with a confirmed rise in serum PSA after prior definitive RT, careful assessment is required to rule out distant metastases,” says Dr. Katz. In the last 5 years, the use of novel PET/CT imaging modalities such as the Axumin (fluciclovine F 18) and PYLARIFY (piflufolastat F 18) scans have dramatically improved the detection of recurrent disease. Both imaging technologies are available at NYU Langone. “After detection of recurrent disease, the goal of salvage cryotherapy is to delay initiation of androgen deprivation therapy (ADT), which can have deleterious side effects,” explains Dr. Katz. Better Outcomes, Covered by Medicare The 5- and 10-year disease-specific survival rates following salvage cryoablation are 91% and 79%, respectively. In addition, the procedure is covered under Medicare for patients with localized disease who have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment and meet other conditions. Furthermore, current guidelines from the American Urological Association (AUA) support cryotherapy as an option in this setting. “We were instrumental in the Medicare coverage determination process for salvage crytotherapy in this setting,” says Dr. Katz. “It remains an established option for patients with radiation-recurrent disease.” How Does Cryotherapy Work? Schematic illustration of cryotherapy. ADAPTED FROM: World J Urol. 2019;37(3):409-418. Cryotherapy causes tissue damage and vascular injury around the cryoneedle. The cryotherapy device consists of an ultrasound-guided system, 17-gauge cryoneedles, thermocouples, and argon and helium inlets. The procedure consists of two freeze and thaw cycles. The procedure can take place in an outpatient setting under spinal anesthesia. Magnetic resonance (MR)-guided cryotherapy has proved to allow for real-time imaging of the ablated zone by active monitoring. A Treatment with Curative Potential Cryotherapy being performed in an operating room. For patients with locally recurrent prostate cancer, cryoablation offers the potential for cure. Other salvage treatment options for patients with a positive prostate biopsy, without evidence of metastatic disease, include radical prostatectomy and brachytherapy. However, cryotherapy offers unique advantages compared to these approaches. Benefits of Salvage Cryoablation No hospital stay No transfusions No delayed/long-term complications No risk of secondary malignancy Repeatable Low incontinence rates Minimal anesthesia Quick return to “normal life” Covered by Medicare, Recommended by Guidelines A cryotherapy probe. Medicare covers cryosurgical salvage therapy for patients with localized disease who: (1) have failed a trial of radiation therapy as their primary treatment; and (2) meet one of the following conditions: Stage T2B or below, Gleason score < 9, PSA < 8 ng/mL. Current guidelines from the also support cryotherapy as an option for patients. Additional Clinical Trials for Localized Prostate Cancer In collaboration with Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, , is leading the INTREPId clinical trial evaluating whether darolutamide plus radiation therapy (RT) is non-inferior to GnRH agonist and bicalutamide plus RT for intermediate risk prostate cancer. “The goal of this trial is to determine whether men who receive darolutamide and RT are better able to preserve erectile function without sacrificing the potential for long-term disease control,” says Dr. Katz. Aaron E. Katz, MD, is a professor and chair of urology at NYU Long Island School of Medicine. His research and clinical interests include the use of salvage cryoablation for the treatment of individuals with recurrent prostate cancer after radiation therapy. Most Patients Achieve Orgasm in First Year After Gender-Affirming Vaginoplasty In a study of 199 patients who underwent gender-affirming robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty, 86% who completed one year or more of follow up were orgasmic, and the median time to achieve orgasm post-surgery was 180 days. Some previously anorgasmic patients also became newly orgasmic. ADAPTED FROM: J Sex Med . 2022 March;19:781-788. Journal of Sexual Medicine finds that 86 percent of patients undergoing robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty at NYU Langone Health are able to achieve orgasm within one year of the surgery. “We developed the robotic peritoneal flap vaginoplasty and we’ve performed more of these procedures than any other center,” says study co-author and urologic surgeon , co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in . So far, the team has completed more than 500 of the gender-affirming surgeries, with low complication and revision rates. The new retrospective study is the first to quantify the time needed for patients to regain their post-surgery orgasmic ability. “One of the things that’s unique about this study is that people hadn’t really measured it previously,” says study co-author , a urologic surgeon and the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery. Pre-surgery, only 81 percent of patients were able to achieve orgasm without difficulty. Post-surgery, Dr. Bluebond-Langner says some of the previously anorgasmic patients became newly orgasmic. “The nerves have to be present,” she says. “But then there’s a mind–body connection, there are hormonal influences, there are emotional influences, and there’s just connecting to your new anatomy.” “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state. With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” NYU Langone takes a holistic approach to supporting patients in their post-surgical care, Dr. Zhao notes, with the involvement of nurse navigators, social workers, physical therapists, and other specialists. “Two-thirds of our patients come from out of state,” he says. “With our close monitoring of patients, we’re able to achieve these excellent outcomes despite many of them coming from far away.” “Patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable. Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” The personalized follow-up, Dr. Bluebond-Langner adds, is a big key to the success of the gender-affirming surgery. “It’s important to emphasize that patients proceed at their own rate, so not everyone is going to orgasm on the same post-operative timetable,” she says. “Just because it takes longer doesn’t mean it won’t happen, and I think in that sense, providing data can often be very encouraging for patients.” Plastic Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Rachel Bluebond-Langner, MD, is the Laura and Isaac Perlmutter Associate Professor of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery and an associate professor of urology. Lee C. Zhao, MD (He/Him) Reconstructive Genitourinary Surgery, Gender Affirming Surgery Lee C. Zhao, MD, is an associate professor in the Department of Urology and Hansjörg Wyss Department of Plastic Surgery, co-director of transgender reconstructive surgery in Transgender Surgery Services. He specializes in reconstructive surgery for reproductive organs and the urinary system. Confronting Social Media’s Double-Edged Influence in Urology A noted physician-researcher and population health expert, , is interested in the impact of social media on men’s health decision-making. Her research quantifying the extent of misinformation across social media platforms has been published in BJU International, European Urology, Nature Reviews Urology, and Reviews in Urology. Here, Dr. Loeb shares how those research findings inform her clinical care and population health initiatives. Your research has revealed just how strongly social media impacts public understanding of urologic conditions. How have you and your colleagues approached that research? For as long as we’ve had social media, we’ve known it can be a powerful patient education tool—and a source of harmful misinformation. For several years we’ve worked to quantify misinformation around urologic conditions, finding substantial bias and erroneous information across multiple conditions and social media platforms. In one , for example, we found that out of 150 YouTube bladder cancer videos, 67 percent contained poor-quality information. Considering these videos reached more than 1.2 million people, that’s a concern. Similar findings have been reflected in our other studies, including high levels of biased and misinformative content about prostate cancer on YouTube, TikTok and Instagram. What does your research indicate about potential methods to combat urologic misinformation online? We’ve studied short- and long-term solutions to address the misinformation problem. Much of our focus has been on disseminating evidence-based information about urologic health conditions to increase engagement around vetted content and key research. For example, with the Prostate Cancer Foundation, I launched a Prostate Cancer Journal Club on Twitter, where we engage in a global discussion with multidisciplinary audiences—scientists, providers, patients, and other stakeholders—around important research articles and findings. Long-term, we have a collaboration with computer scientists at the University of Michigan, examining whether machine learning can be used to automatically detect misinformation about prostate cancer. If our algorithm could accurately identify misinformation in online content, this could be used to help provide a smarter search filter for health consumers. You’ve highlighted the downfalls of social media and medical information. Are there any benefits? When we can get high-quality, evidence-based information out to more patients and their families, social media offers enormous benefits in terms of education and empowerment. Social media also offers healthcare providers a source of freely available content to understand unmet needs of patients and families and adjust our practice accordingly. For example, as part of a grant from the Department of Defense, we are investigating sexual health among partners of patients with prostate cancer. We’ve examined data from online health communities in which partners describe substantial changes in their sexual quality of life that weren’t addressed by physicians. This provides insights into gaps in care and future resources that may be helpful. You’ve been recognized for your leadership in research—you were awarded a Gold Cytoscope Award from the American Urological Association for research in prostate cancer screening and surveillance. As one of relatively few female leaders in urology research and care, how do you think the field can become more diverse? Loeb: Currently only about 10 percent of practicing U.S. urologists are female. I strive to mentor young physicians and scientists interested in careers in medicine. While NYU Langone has relatively many female leaders in the specialty, there is still a lot of work to do to achieve gender equity in urology. Our group recently published a paper highlighting the substantial prevalence of so-called “manels,” or all-male panels, at major urology meetings. It’s important to define and quantify these issues to identify solutions. Social media is helpful to raise awareness of the need for greater diversity in the field. A recent campaign has used the hashtag #ilooklikeaurologist to promote diversity and advocate for more inclusive policies in the field. What additional research questions in social media and urology are you exploring? Through another Department of Defense grant, our team is investigating disparities in online prostate cancer information. Although Black men have a higher risk of prostate cancer and death, we’ve found an under representation of Black adults in online prostate cancer content. We are currently studying whether this has an impact for clinical decision-making among Black men with prostate cancer. Much of my research is inspired by the diversity of my patient population, whose care informs new research questions. At the same time, it’s very rewarding to bring research insights back to patients in the clinic to enhance the quality of their care. Applying 3D Treatment Planning to Prostate Cryoablation A novel three-dimensional (3D) planning technique could optimize treatment planning for partial gland cryoablation, according to a recent pilot study The new technique could overcome the shortcomings of two-dimensional (2D) imaging for preablation treatment planning. With respect to prostate cancer cryoablation, there are no commercially available software tools to guide treatment in 3D. , and his research team developed the patient-specific 3D models using multi-parametric MRI (mpMRI), as well as virtual 3D cryotherapy probes to simulate the procedure. “Prior to cryoablation, we use virtual 3D planning to confirm the required number and placement of cryoprobes to achieve confluent treatment volume for each unique lesion and margin, more accurately estimating treatment volume, and thus, predicting a larger number of cryoprobes,” says Wysock. Targeting A Key Challenge Partial gland ablation for prostate cancer limits side effects by focusing treatment to only regions of known cancer and preserving the surrounding healthy tissue. Increasingly, mpMRI has been utilized for detection, localization, and staging of prostate cancer While organ-sparing treatment strategies have been widely employed for other malignancies, such as kidney and breast cancer, Wysock says this approach for prostate cancer has been limited by challenges in precise determination of tumor location and volume within the prostate gland. “Achieving a confluent ‘kill zone’ for MRI-guided prostate gland ablation has remained a significant challenge.” Precise Location Prediction In their pilot study, Wysock and his team used the 3D prostate cancer models, mpMRI, and 3D visualization software to plan and simulate a theoretic zone of cryoablation. Twenty men were included in a 3D planning cohort and outcomes were compared to 20 others undergoing partial gland cryoablation using traditional 2D planning techniques. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin.” After analysis, the researchers demonstrated that the virtual cryotherapy probes predicted the exact “kill zone” preoperatively, providing novel guidance for the operating procedure. In addition, at the time of follow-up biopsy, more men in the 3D planning group were negative for prostate cancer as compared to those in the 2D planning group. “Our 3D models conceptualize the location of the tumor within the prostate, as well as provide guidance on the extent of the necessary treatment margin to predict an adequate ‘kill’ zone,” Wysock says. Future studies with more patients will investigate how this method compares to traditional 2D planning, as well as how it impacts long-term treatment efficacy. Wysock says that while the findings are an important first step, meaningful differences between 3D and traditional 2D planning could not be validated in this pilot study due to the small cohort and retrospective nature. “In the future, 3D planning may allow for a more comprehensive assessment of the coverage area needed for successful tumor ablation. Our results encourage further study in a larger cohort.” Pushing Novel Therapeutics for Bladder Cancer Through to the Finish Line Gary D. Steinberg, MD and colleagues. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff In this era of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) shortage , the need for alternative treatments for non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has never been more evident. Internationally renowned as an expert on novel therapeutics for NMIBC, , is leading several clinical trials aimed at testing innovative new treatment options for this complicated disease. Here, he discusses the explosion of new trials and concepts around NMIBC treatment, shares what is needed to propel research forward, and provides insight into the changing role of surgery. Engaging the Immune System Of the many research activities that you are working on, which are you most excited about? Dr. Steinberg: I’m currently very interested in newer forms of immunotherapy, whether it’s oncolytic vaccines, antibody-drug conjugates, or cytokine therapy. Like other highly mutated cancers, bladder cancer appears to respond better to the immune system, so I’m interested in looking at how we can best utilize the immune system to fight the disease. One new treatment option that I’m particularly excited about is the CG0070 vaccine. It has a GM-CSF (granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor) gene in it to stimulate immune cell recruitment and it is designed to replicate in RB (retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein) mutated or -deficient tumor cells. Since roughly 80 percent of patients with high-grade bladder cancer have mutations or deficiencies, it could benefit a lot of patients. We are now testing CG0070 in combination with pembrolizumab through the CORE-001 trial , for which I am the national principal investigator. This pairing may help combat the potential resistance mechanism of PD-L1 induction seen with immune cell death. Intravesical Gene Therapy You are also serving as the national PI for the LEGEND trial , that is testing the safety and efficacy of a non-viral gene therapy designed to elicit a local immune response. Can you tell us more about this treatment approach? For LEGEND, we are focusing on delivering genes for the cytokines RIG-1, an innate immune stimulator, and IL-12, a T-cell stimulator, directly to the uroepithelium. This way we stimulate both arms of the immune system. But you can put anything you want into this delivery system. You can encode IL-15 or even a checkpoint inhibitor, like a PD-1 inhibitor. I think it provides a unique avenue for a variety of gene products and cytokines to draw different responses from the immune system. Antibody-Drug Conjugates phase 1 clinical trial recently opened to assess intravesical enfortumab vedotin for treatment of NMIBC, and you are helping lead this study as well. Tell us more about this antibody-drug conjugate. Enfortumab vedotin delivers the tumor-killing drug monomethyl auristatin E directly to the tumor, taking out cancer cells without harming neighboring healthy cells. It’s incredibly active in metastatic bladder cancer and I believe that it is going to be our most effective antibody-drug conjugate in NMIBC. Perlmutter Cancer Center is the first site to start enrolling participants for this study. The Impact of BCAN To drive advancements in bladder cancer treatment, you helped found the highly successful Bladder Cancer Advocacy Network ( CAN ). Tell us more about the impact of this network. Bladder cancer research was a desert up until 15 years ago when we created BCAN. The first meeting was simply a group of urologists all interested in moving the field forward. Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research. “Over the past 15 years, we’ve created an organization for patients and helped make bladder cancer one of the hottest areas of research.” We’ve brought together urologists with pharmaceutical companies, medical oncologists, pathologists, scientists, and radiation oncologists. As a result of this dialogue, pharmaceutical companies are stepping up to the plate to help drive a lot of this innovation and new drug development. The Importance of National Guidelines What do you think is needed in order to propel these emerging therapeutic strategies across the finish line? As a urologic community, I think it’s critically important that we follow guidelines in the management of NMIBC. All too often, the management of NMIBC is all over the map, making it more difficult to interpret outcomes from various treatments and to enroll patients in clinical trials. First and foremost, to help advance research, I really encourage urologists to follow national guidelines from the American Urology Association Society of Urologic Oncology National Comprehensive Cancer Network on the management of NMIBC. Radical Cystectomy is Still a Cornerstone With so many promising new treatments on the horizon, can you speak to how the role of surgery in NMIBC may be evolving? In the situation where we can preserve bladders because we have better treatments against high-risk NMIBC, we will hopefully be able to avoid recommending or utilizing radical cystectomy. It is clear that patients would like to preserve their bladder at all costs. Having said that, radical cystectomy is still the cornerstone of management for muscle invasive bladder cancer and high-risk NMIBC. All too often, patients will be treated for NMIBC and the disease will progress to muscle invasive disease. By the time that happens, patients frequently have locally advanced if not metastatic disease. There’s a fine line between properly preserving bladders, but not overdoing it. Dr. Steinberg isa member of Clinical Trial Protocol Committees for the following companies: Merck, BMS, Janssen, CG Oncology, Pfizer, PhotoCure, Fidia, Seagen, Protara. He is or has been a scientific advisor/consultant within the past 5 years for the following companies: Heat Biologics; CG Oncology; PhotoCure; Merck; Roche/Genentech; Ciclomed; Taris Biomedical (Now Janssen); MDxHealth; Fidia Farmaceuticals; Urogen, Ferring; Aduro; Boston Scientific; Bristol Myers Squibb; Astra Zeneca; Pfizer, Janssen; Epivax Therapeutics; Natera; FKD; EnGene Bio; SesenBio; BioCanCell (Now Archiano); Nucleix; Ipsen; Combat Medical; Astellas; Fergene; Dendreon; Abbvie; Seattle Genetics; Verity Pharmaceuticals, Regeneron, STIMIT, Vyriad, Protara, xCures. He has equity stock/options in Epivax Therapeutics, and Urogen. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses A trio of cases demonstrate the need to carefully weigh diagnosis and treatment. New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease The easy-to-use system will fill a longstanding gap in researching urethral strictures. NYU Langone Health Physicians at the 2022 AUA Annual Meeting The Annual Meeting of the American Urologic Association returned to New Orleans, and this year, physicians representing the Department of Urology at NYU Langone Health presented on topics ranging from cryoablative therapies for prostate cancer to gender-affirming surgery. View Friday, May 13 Abstract Presentation Systematic Review of the Impact of a Plant-Based Diet on Prostate Cancer Incidence and Outcomes , Jacob Taylor, MD, James Borin, MD , Kenneth Jacobsohn, MD, Stacey Kenfield, ScD, Scott Eggener, MD, Hiten Patel, MD, Carrie Price, Meena Davuluri, MD, Nataliya Byrne, Trinity Bivalacqua, MD, PhD, Speaker: Natasha Gupta Patient Perspectives in Genital Gender-Affirming Surgery: The Need for Patient Reported Outcome Measures Nnenaya Agochukwu-Mmonu, MD , Elijah Castle, Asa E. Radix, MD, PhD Daphna Harel , Clarissa Ospina-Norvell, NP, Carolyn Berry, PhD Speaker: Elijah Castle Monday, May 16 Outcomes of Penile Prosthesis Implantation in Transgender Neophallus: A Single Center Experience Authors: Jesse Persily, Begoña Etcheverry, MD, Kirtishri Mishra, MD , Gaines Blasdel, Rachel Bluebond-Langer, MD Speaker: Jesse Persily 5-year Oncologic Outcomes at a Single-Institution Following Focal Cryotherapy for Prostate Cancer Management Authors: Ashley Monaco, Jessica Sommer, Meredith Akerman Speaker: Ashley Monaco A Prospective Longitudinal Study of Erectile Function Following Partial Gland Cryoablation for Intermediate Risk Prostate Cancer Authors: Sameer Thakker, , Rozalba Gogaj, MD, Speaker: Sameer Thakker Focal Cryotherapy and Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy Have Similar Oncologic and Functional Outcomes in Treatment of Low-to-Intermediate Unilobe Prostate Cancer Chinyere Okpara Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations New trials aim to reduce universal problem of GvHD after allogeneic transplant. A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test A gene sequencing test holds revolutionary potential for cancer treatment. Schedule an Urgent Care Visit We have locations in Manhattan, as well as Virtual Urgent Care video visits. If you are experiencing an injury or illness and you’re unable to get an appointment with your doctor, NYU Langone has several urgent care options to ensure you get the care you need as quickly and conveniently as possible. We offer specialized emergency care for adults and children. We offer urgent care services in Manhattan at . Our doctors are available for extended hours during the week, as well as on the weekend, and are able to perform minor procedures, bloodwork, and imaging services. Virtual Urgent Care video visits , so you can video chat with an NYU Langone care provider when you are at home, at work, or even when you’re traveling. When to Seek Urgent Care Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone are covered by a variety of insurance plans. Common conditions that can be diagnosed and treated by an urgent care doctor include the following: colds and flu sore throat or strep throat cough, bronchitis, or pneumonia urinary tract infection (UTI) sexually transmitted disease (STD) evaluation and treatment nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, or dehydration cuts and broken bones sports injuries For medical emergencies such as chest pain, difficulty breathing, choking, significant bleeding, stroke-related symptoms, or thoughts that could result in personal harm or harm to others, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency care location. Urgent Care at NYU Langone Ambulatory Care West Side 355 West 52nd Street, 8th Floor, New York, NY, 10019 646-754-2599 Urgent Care at NYU Langone at Trinity A Parents’ Guide to Virtual Urgent Care for Kids Advice on Caring for Children’s Respiratory Illnesses RSV Is Spreading Among Kids—Here’s When to See a Doctor Virtual Urgent Care Helps a Busy Family Run Smoothly Virtual Urgent Care to the Rescue for Late-Night UTI Pains How a Dozen Doctors Saved Two Lives in One Over 22 Days Telemedicine Provides an Ideal Containment Tool for COVID-19 Telemedicine Transforms Response to COVID-19 Virtual Urgent Care Medical Director on COVID-19 Pandemic A Milestone for Precision Medicine: FDA Clears NYU Genome PACT Test The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has given the green light to NYU Langone Health’s Genome PACT (Profiling of Actionable Cancer Targets) test—a novel sequencing tool that detects changes in hundreds of genes simultaneously. The groundbreaking technology is expected to revolutionize cancer screening over the coming decade. PACT designer , is the director of molecular pathology and diagnostics in the Department of Pathology. He works in collaboration with senior leadership at the Perlmutter Cancer Center to develop state of the art diagnostics for patients with cancer. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” “The NYU Langone Genome PACT test detects changes in a panel of 607 genes, many of which will be important for optimizing selection of next-generation anti-cancer therapeutics in the coming years,” Snuderl says. “Our next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based pan-cancer test rapidly analyzes multiple genes at once to help clinicians choose the right cancer-specific treatment at the right time.” Designing the Test The test covers the most genes of any FDA-cleared NGS panel to date and matches patients with approved targeted therapies for the treatment of a variety of solid tumors. It includes genes related to compounds currently in clinical trials, or in some cases, where the evidence is strongly linked to cancers by basic science studies. The researchers also intend to expand the panel as more target genes are identified. In addition, the NYU Genome PACT test result includes eligibility for specific clinical trials for a given patient. The test is coupled with a unique bioinformatics system that converts complex genomic data into a report that identifies specific genes that are mutated in a tumor sample. Each report includes specific treatment recommendations for a given patient and a specific type of cancer, fully personalizing genomic medicine, Snuderl says. “There are significant gaps in molecular testing for patients with different types of cancer, especially in the community. Future plans include expanding access to this test, making it available for patients outside of NYU. Our leadership is discussing strategies for expanded access right now.” Development and Collaboration In collaboration with the healthcare technology company Philips, Snuderl and his team built a cloud-based interface capable of genomic processing, interpretation, and reporting. The interface integrates with NYU Langone Health’s electronic medical records system to form an integrated knowledge database, capable of seamlessly coordinating follow-up testing. “Our collaboration with Philips has been incredibly fruitful and productive,” says Snuderl. “The PACT test was intentionally designed to be integrated into electronic medical records, such that tests can be ordered, reviewed, and shared by a patient’s care team.” FDA 510(k) Clearance The NYU Langone Genome PACT test received 510(k) FDA clearance on July 15, 2021. While not required for an NGS-based test, 510(k) clearance is a stringent process for obtaining approval to market a device and is important for reimbursement from payers. “At the end of the day, FDA clearance is the highest bar for a laboratory test, and is really the gold standard,” says Snuderl. “We are only the second academic center to get such a panel approved; the FDA clearance is a significant accomplishment.” It is highly unusual for an academic medical center to apply for a test to be cleared by the FDA, Snuderl explained, but the NYU Langone team chose to do so to ensure that its test met the most stringent standards as it moves to the clinic. “Receiving FDA 510(k) clearance was a highly complex process that took us over two years to obtain. I believe this will be a key differentiator for our test moving forward.” Broad Implications Snuderl and his team will to continue to measure the test’s impact on patient outcomes. He believes the test will have important implications for patient care, research, healthcare costs, and policy. Currently, the PACT test is only available for use by patients of NYU Langone Health. This work was supported by funding from the Department of Pathology at NYU Langone and Perlmutter Cancer Center, as well as by gifts from the Gray Foundation, The Holliday Foundation, Randye and Brian Kwait, Making Headway Foundation, and The Ambrose Monell Foundation. Molecular Pathology Matija Snuderl, MD, is an associate professor of pathology. He also serves as director of molecular pathology and diagnostics. His research centers around biomarker discovery to improve brain tumor diagnostics and therapeutics. Combating GvHD with New Drug Combinations Samer Al-Homsi, MD, MBA. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Several new trials of novel drug combinations are underway aimed at preventing graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) after allogeneic transplant. “With the current GvHD prevention regimen, GvHD still occurs in its acute or chronic forms in at least 50 and 30 percent of patients, respectively,” says Samer Al-Homsi, MD , executive director of the Bone Marrow Transplant Center, who is leading the studies. “The goal is to develop innovative strategies for GvHD prevention to improve the results of mismatched unrelated and haploidentical donor transplants and increase the wide applicability of these regimens,” Dr. Al-Homsi says. Abatacept in Combination The drug abatacept has conventionally been used to treat some forms of arthritis, but has also shown to lower incidence of GvHD in fully- and near-matched donor allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) when administered in combination with methotrexate and tacrolimus. As a result, abatacept received accelerated approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the prevention of GvHD. , Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are examining whether the combination of cyclophosphamide, abatacept, and short-duration tacrolimus is safe and effective for GvHD prophylaxis following haploidentical transplantation. “We believe that the enhanced efficacy of the abatacept-containing regimen will also allow us to shorten the duration of tacrolimus, an immunosuppressant, thus allowing faster recovery of the immune system following allogeneic transplantation,” Al-Homsi says. The researchers are currently enrolling adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a first- or second-degree haploidentical donor. Additional Combinations Dr. Al-Homsi and his team are leading another phase II clinical trial examining the combination of cyclophosphamide and bortezomib (a proteasome inhibitor). While both drugs are FDA approved for other indications, the researchers hypothesize the novel combo may act synergistically to inhibit the development of GvHD in patients with various blood cancers. The clinical trial team is adults with hematological malignancies undergoing allogeneic HSCT from a matched-related or unrelated donor. “If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” Furthering Progress in Transplantation Looking ahead, these and other combinations may eliminate the need for traditional prophylactic drugs and are particularly useful for those with impaired kidney function, a patient population not commonly offered transplantation, Dr. Al-Homsi says. “Preventing GvHD has important implications for solid organ transplantation as well. If we can transplant safely without GvHD, we could complete solid organ transplantation and blood transplant at the same time, sparing patients life-long immunosuppression.” New Classification System for Urethral Stricture Disease ADAPTED FROM: Urology. 2020 Sep;143:241-247. LSE Urethral Stricture Classification The new LSE urethral stricture classification system is determined by length (L), segment (S), and etiology (E). Length is surgically based: less than or equal to 2 cm, greater than 2 cm and less than or equal to 7 cm, or greater than 7 cm. The segment indicates bulbar versus penile urethra involvement. The etiology indicates the clinical predictability of urethral tissue within and surrounding the urethral stricture during urethroplasty. Urethral stricture disease (USD) is a heterogeneous condition with poorly understood pathophysiology. The lack of a classification system for USD has slowed progress in research across institutions to advance new treatments. Reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures.” “Oncologists can use the TNM system to classify disease and compare treatments. We reconstructive urologists needed a system to allow us to do the same for urethral strictures says , a specialist in surgery for urethral strictures. The new LSE urethral stricture classification system was recently created by the Trauma and Urologic Reconstruction Network of Surgeons (TURNS), of which Dr. Zhao is a participant. The system incorporates three elements (length, urethral segment, and etiology), includes clinically relevant subcategories, and is based on readily available clinical data. In developing the LSE classification system, importance was placed on ensuring high interrater reliability, or a high likelihood that different clinical observers would classify an individual case of USD the same way. Using the LSE classification, review of 2,162 strictures revealed the system to be strongly associated with urethroplasty type and etiology. Dr. Zhao, an author of the LSE classification system, expects it to be widely utilized among urologists to discuss the treatment of urethral strictures. Challenges in Managing Small Renal Masses William C. Huang, MD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Subtleties Drive Treatment A series of three cases at NYU Langone Health illustrate how management is evolving for small renal masses (SRMs), says urologic oncologist , a member of the American Society of Clinical Oncology Guidelines Panel for SRMs. Instead of radical nephrectomy, Dr. Huang and colleagues increasingly opt for kidney-sparing options including active surveillance, ablation, or partial nephrectomy. The shift reflects earlier SRM detection due to imaging advances, plus a relatively low risk of disease progression Here, the first two cases were treated with robotic partial nephrectomy, the third, active surveillance. Dr. Huang notes that currently, the majority of patients with SRMs in the United States still receive immediate, active treatment. He attributes this to reactivity and biases in risk perception. “Up to 20 percent of surgically resected SRMs are benign. In spite of the exceedingly low risk of cancer spread, there is still a great amount of anxiety among patients and referring providers prompting immediate treatment for cancers that can be appropriately closely monitored.” “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs.” Oncocytomas, such as in the first case, have overlapping features with malignant renal masses and can appear similar to clear cell renal carcinoma on imaging, Dr. Huang says, emphasizing pretreatment imaging or biopsy to differentiate this benign lesion from kidney cancer. Comprehensive imaging, such as in the second case, can support Bosniak classification but still can fail in accurately differentiating a cystic renal cell carcinoma from a benign complex cyst. The third case reinforces the need to consider whether a patient will truly benefit from any treatment, regardless of risk. Dr. Huang’s team opted for active surveillance for this patient—who died five months later due to a comorbidity. Says Dr. Huang, “We must educate patients and providers about the very low oncologic risk attributable to SRMs, allowing them to make informed treatment selections.” Malignant Appearing Small Mass to Oncocytoma For the first case, a healthy, 39-year-old man presented with abdominal pain, and a CT scan revealed a 2.2 centimeter enhancing solid mass (red circle). The man received a robotic partial nephrectomy. Upon pathology, the excised oncocytoma showed diffuse reactivity for the oncogenic marker CD117 and scattered positivity for CK7. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Benign Multi-Locular Cyst Appears as a Suspicious Malignant Cyst In a second case, providers identified a mass in a healthy 54-year-old man: an incidental 2.5 centimeter complex cyst on chest CT (red circle) that was later confirmed via MRI as a 2.6 centimeter cystic left upper pole renal lesion. The septated mass had a thick rim and was rated Bosniak category III. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff Comorbidity Considerations Essential The third case involved a 59-year-old man with a history of cardiovascular conditions, including coronary artery disease, severe aortic regurgitation, a cerebrovascular accident, and a thoracic aortic aneurysm repair. He had a biopsy-proven, enlarging solid 2.2 centimeter papillary renal cell carcinoma (red circle). PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff William C. Huang, MD, is a professor of urology and radiology, vice chair for clinical affairs in the Department of Urology, and co-director of the Robotic Surgery Center. He is also chief of urology at Tisch Hospital. As a urologic oncologist, his research focuses on novel therapeutics and surgical approaches for kidney and bladder cancers. People who have been diagnosed with are invited to attend an education program hosted by the Bronchiectasis and NTM Program The NTM Patient Education Program was created in 2015 to give those living with these conditions the unique opportunity to interact directly with our physicians, ask questions, and learn about the latest advances in the diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections. First North American Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on December 10, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. View presentation videos 2024 Bronchiectatasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together on April 9, 2024, to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2023 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders and summarize current research. 2022 Bronchiectasis and NTM Education Program 2020 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program During this program, our experts discussed new NTM therapies, treatment guidelines, and ongoing clinical trials. Presentations included the following: Interaction with the Internal and External Environments, presented by View presentation What’s New in the NTM Treatment Guidelines?, presented by Update on M. Abscessus and New Therapies for NTM, presented by Diagnostic and Treatment Options for Gastroesophageal Reflux and Bronchiectasis, presented by Abraham Khan, MD NTM Clinical Trials at NYU Langone Health, presented by 2019 Bronchiectasis and NTM Patient Education Program Our bronchiectasis and NTM experts came together to discuss the latest breakthroughs in diagnosis and treatment of NTM infections and related disorders, and summarize current research. Presentations included the following: NYU Langone NTM Program Research, presented by Environmental Sources for NTM Infection: Where Is It?, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nonpharmacologic Therapies and Airway Clearance Techniques in Bronchiectasis, presented by Dr. Basavaraj : Update on Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris 2017 NTM Patient Education Program NYU Langone experts discussed the latest advances in diagnosis, treatment, and research on NTM infections and related disorders at the 2017 NTM Patient Education Program. Presentations included the following: Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Infection Epidemiology and Evaluation, presented by Dr. Kamelhar Nontuberculous Mycobacterium: Management, presented by Dr. Addrizzo-Harris The Association of Reflux and Aspiration with NTM, presented by Dr. Khan Dysphagia in NTM, presented by Stamatela Matina Balou, PhD For more information on upcoming events, please email Marla.Hymes@NYULangone.org When you come to one of NYU Langone’s emergency care locations, we assess your condition, provide you with the appropriate care, and determine next steps for treatment. At NYU Langone, it is our to provide treatment free from discrimination of any kind. When You See an Expert As our patient, you receive timely and efficient care. We strive to make sure that all patients can see a doctor or physician assistant for an initial assessment within 15 minutes of arrival, and those with life-threatening conditions are evaluated immediately. During this time, we may also expedite any needed laboratory tests or imaging exams to help us make a diagnosis. For your safety, multiple members of the staff may ask you the same questions. We want to fully understand your story to provide you with the best treatment possible. To respect your privacy, we make every effort to speak softly in open care spaces. We also invite you and your loved ones to ask questions about your treatment and condition. Please tell us if you are in pain or if what we are doing to manage your pain isn’t working so we can help. You and your family are the most important members of our team. Inpatient and Outpatient Emergency Care After your initial assessment, if your illness or condition requires more extensive care, you may be hospitalized. When a bed is ready on one of our inpatient units, a member of our emergency care team accompanies you to your room. We also offer observation services for conditions that require a brief period of hospitalization. We understand that having your loved ones nearby may make you feel more comfortable. We may ask guests to temporarily step out of a patient’s room when we have to perform procedures or when the room is too crowded. Please ask your care team if you have any questions about your treatment. We encourage you to be actively involved in your care. After Your Emergency Care Visit When your doctors and nurses are satisfied that you are well enough to leave the hospital, they prepare you for discharge. Everyone receives a discharge plan, a plan of care for when you are at home, and summary of your visit. One to three days after your discharge, someone from our emergency department contacts you regarding follow-up care. We want to help you with anything you may need, including scheduling doctor appointments or obtaining medications. If you live outside of the United States and need additional care after discharge, please contact our . Our staff is available 9:00AM to 5:00PM, Monday through Friday. Accepted Insurance Plans for Urgent Care at NYU Langone Urgent care services performed at NYU Langone may be covered by your insurance plan. Please review our list of insurance plans that we accept. Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield BCBS Florida Blue Options PPO BCBS Florida MyBlue HMO BCBS Florida Simply Blue BCBS Florida Blue Medicare PPO BCBS Florida Blue Care HMO BCBS Florida Traditional PPC First Health HIP VIP Medicare Bold Local 1199 NYSHIP - The Empire Plan Qualcare Inc. Railroad Medicare United Healthcare VA Community Care Network Our doctors are located throughout the New York City area. 646-501-7890 At NYU Langone’s Anosmia Center, our team of otolaryngologists—also known as ear, nose, and throat doctors—are experts at diagnosing and treating anosmia, or the loss of smell. The process of smell is a unique connection between the brain and the nerve cells in the nose, called olfactory cells. When a scent molecule is released from an object such as a warm chocolate chip cookie, it stimulates the olfactory cells, which then send scent information to the brain, where the smell is interpreted and identified. Without smell, taste is also affected, since our taste buds can detect few flavors on their own. This can lead to a loss of interest in food, which can cause weight loss and possibly malnutrition. Anosmia may also affect quality of life by diminishing the ability to experience enjoyable smells. People who have anosmia are also more likely to consume spoiled or unsafe food, and be less aware of smells that indicate imminent danger such as smoke or natural gas. Colds, allergies, sinus infections, and viral infections such as the or COVID-19 can all cause anosmia. It can also be caused by nasal polyps or other blockages, tumors, or a . Conditions such as can also damage or deteriorate the nerves leading to the area of the brain that detects smell, causing anosmia. Diagnosing Anosmia Anosmia is often temporary, but if your sense of smell does not return after an illness, our otolaryngologists can help. When you come to the Anosmia Center, our physicians determine the cause of your smell disturbance through a thorough evaluation of your medical history and physical examination. To get a closer look at the inside of your nasal passages, your doctor uses a light and a hand-held instrument called a speculum. The speculum is used to gently widen the nostrils, so doctors can see the interior tissues and bone structure of the nose. Your doctor may also perform a nasal endoscopy, which is a diagnostic exam that provides a detailed view of the nasal passages. To perform this procedure, your doctor first sprays your nose with a decongestant to open up the nasal passages and a local anesthetic solution to reduce any discomfort. The doctor then inserts a thin fiber-optic instrument called an endoscope through each nostril. An endoscopy of the nasal passages and throat can reveal sources of any obstruction that could cause anosmia. This procedure takes only a couple of minutes and takes place in your doctor’s office. If your doctor needs more information, they may order an , which uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create images. MRI scans can detect whether there is in obstruction or deformity in the soft tissues of the head and neck causing anosmia. Once your doctor determines the primary cause of anosmia, they can develop a personalized treatment plan. For example, if you have sinusitis, medication can help restore your sense of smell. If a nasal polyp, tumor, or deformity is causing the anosmia, your otolaryngologist may recommend surgery to correct it. Post-COVID Anosmia Care If your loss of smell persists several months after recovering from COVID-19, our doctors may recommend smell retraining. Smell retraining involves repeatedly sniffing different smells while looking at a picture of each scent to help stimulate the olfactory system and establish a memory of that smell. Your doctor gives you a set of small glass jars with lids that each contain a small amount of an essential oil. The scents are often common smells that everyone can identify, such as grass, chocolate, lemon, mint, and coffee. At least two or three times a day, you smell the oil in each jar for 10 to 20 seconds while looking at a picture of the scent. While sniffing, you concentrate on your memory of the smell. After smelling each scent, you take a few deep breaths to clear your nasal passages and then move on to the next scent. Smell retraining is performed daily for about 12 weeks. Since the beginning of the pandemic, NYU Langone doctors have treated large numbers of people with COVID-19. This experience, along with our focus on long-term COVID-19 symptoms , have given our team the skills and experience necessary to understand and address their impact on your health and give you the best possible chance to regain your sense of smell. To schedule an appointment, please browse our Our team of ear, nose, and throat specialists are experts at treating anosmia. Maria W. Casey Megan M. Gaffey Marie T. Homsi Stephen G. Rothstein Sabrina Tarafdar Zahrah Taufique At NYU Langone’s Asthma Program, we provide comprehensive care to adults with and specialize in treating those whose disease is severe or difficult to control. We offer complete care to people with asthma that is caused by or related to other conditions, such as allergies, , or sinus disease. Our team works closely with other NYU Langone experts, including allergists, otolaryngologists, and gastroenterologists, to offer the most advanced, customized treatments available. Care in our program begins with a comprehensive medical history. During your first appointment, our experts spend time discussing your lifestyle, home and work environments, diet, allergies, and whether you have exposure to inhalants that irritate the lungs. We also conduct a physical exam and use pulmonary function testing to tailor a treatment plan to your specific needs and lifestyle. If your asthma is severe, our experts determine whether precision biologic therapy is appropriate for you. This type of treatment blocks inflammatory reactions in the body that lead to asthma symptoms and can be very effective for people with severe allergic or eosinophilic asthma. Our dedicated asthma educator, Tsering Tenzing, FNP-BC, counsels people about a range of asthma-related issues, from using an inhaler and exercising safely and comfortably to ways to avoid triggers. She helps you optimize asthma control so that you breathe easily and enjoy a full and active life. Our experts use the most advanced diagnostic techniques and treatments to care for people who have asthma. Francis Adams Gail E. Schattner