and infancy home visitation by nursescarried out in Elmira, New York were reviewed.Evidence from other randomized trials was alsoexamined and analyzed in relation to theproposals of major advisory groups and currentlegislative initiatives. The Elmira studyinvolved 400 women who were having theirfirst child and were at risk for poor pregnancyand health outcomes because they were poor,unmarried, or teenagers.Results of the studyshowed that home visitation participants hadmore improved outcomes than the otherparticipants. A review of all the randomizedtrials of pregnancy and infancy home visitationprograms showed that programs variedtremendously in terms of objectives, targetgroups, structure, background of visitors, andcorresponding effectiveness. More successfulprograms focused on families at greater needfor services; they used nurses who visitedfrequently, beginning during pregnancy andcontinuing at least through the second year ofthe child's life. These programs were based oncomprehensive service models. The researchernoted few of the legislative initiatives beforeCongress or other home visitation proposalscontain all of the programmatic features neededfor program success and recommendeddeveloping a national home visitation programfor parents and young children.1 figure,1 table, 29 references. (HE9700493)161Home Visiting: Analysis andRecommendations.Form:Journal article.Authors: Gomby, D.S.; Larson, C.S.; Lewit,E.M.; Behrman, R.E.Source:Future of Children.3(3):6 22, Winter1993.Abstract: The authors analyze home visitingand provide recommendations for improvingthe practice. Home visiting programs are morepopular today than ever before, providinginformation, health care, and psychological orother support services directly to families.113Maternal and Child HealthThese programs can (1) reach those whootherwise might not receive services, (2)connect families with other services in thecommunity, and (3) foster special relationshipsbetween the visitor and the family. There is abroad range of health or social service homevisiting programs in the United States, howeverthere is no uniformity in these programs.Research has shown that home visitingprograms show diversity in (1) the goals of theprograms, (2) the experience and backgroundsof their staff and their clients, (3) the intensityand duration of the services they provide, and(4) the extent to which home visiting is theprimary service provided. It is the diversity offamilies that produces the enormous challengesthese programs face in meeting their needs.Research focusing on the evaluations ofexperimental designs of programs for pregnantwomen or families with young children haveshown that the most significant benefits havebeen achieved in home visiting programs thatattempt to address a broad array of the needs ofboth children and their parents. They focus onthe cognitive development of the child as wellas address many aspects of child health anddevelopment and the needs of the family foremotional and material support.Benefits havelargely been achieved through childdevelopment outcomes and, to a lesser extent,through health outcomes. Some of the largestgains have been achieved in programs wherehome visiting is not the only strategy, but isaugmented by other services and programs. Areview of characteristics of successful programsshows that home visiting programs should be(1) voluntary, (2) flexible, (3) culturallysensitive, (4) well staffed, and (5) realistic tothe expectations of the program staff and thecommunity. Costs of home visiting programsvary, depending on several factors including (1)number and duration of visits, (2) home visitorcase load, (3) home visitor credentials, (4)supervision and administration of visitors, and(5) parent time. Much work needs to be done inthe economic analysis of home visitingprograms. The author concludes that althoughhome visitors can improve children's health anddevelopment in important ways, these gainscannot continue without ongoingcomprehensive support for children andfamilies. Evidence for the effectiveness ofhome visiting programs is as good or betterthan the evidence for the effectiveness of manyother programs that exist to serve children andfamilies. 45 references. (HE9700602)162Home Visiting and Prenatal Care: ASurvey of Practical Wisdom.Form:Journal article.Authors: Peoples Sheps, M.D.; Efird, C;Miller, C.A.Source:Public Health Nursing.6(2):74 79,June 1989.Abstract:Researchers surveyed experts inprenatal care to determine their perceptionsabout the value of selected strategies forencouraging participation in care, for education,and for behavior change, with particularemphasis on home visiting. Respondents were118 individuals with experience in organizingand implementing prenatal care programs forpoor women or other high risk groups, whowere recommended by directors of officialmaternal and child health programs. Therespondents represented 48 states, 49.2 percentwere nurses, and 51.7 percent were over 40years old. Each person received a mailed nine page questionnaire requesting information onstrategies for promoting early and continuousprenatal care and education and behaviorchange during the prenatal period. Thequestionnaire identified 10 strategies in eacharea and requested that respondents indicatewhether or not they had experience with them114Maternal and Child Healthand the extent to which they perceived each oneto be effective. Data analysis found importantdiscrepancies between respondents' perceptionsabout the effectiveness of some prenatalstrategies and the actual extent of their use inpractice. The findings suggest that homevisiting is considered highly effective in threeof the purposes explored:( 1 ) promoting earlyregistration for care, (2) educating womenduring pregnancy, and (3) influencingappropriate changes in behavior. Peercounselors were considered to be the mosteffective for educational purposes. Counselingby paraprofessionals was viewed as moderatelyeffective in educational efforts, but mosteffective for altering unhealthy behaviors. Theresults raised questions about the education andbackground of home visitors and theappropriate role for public health nurses.5 tables, 17 references. (HE9700488)163Home Visiting Programs and the Healthand Development of Young Children.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ramey, C.T.; Ramey, S.L.Source:Future of Children.3(3): 129 139,Winter 1993.Abstract: The authors present a conceptualframework for understanding and describing themodes of operation of home visiting programsand the specific areas of early childhood healthand development they address. The first 3 yearsof a child's life represent the period of the mostrapid growth and development, especially interms of central nervous system developmentand associated physical development and socialbehavior. Therefore, home visiting programsduring this period of development can and oftendo have goals of both enrichment andprevention. Additionally, children's health anddevelopment include eight distinct, butinterdependent, domains of functioning:(1)survival; (2) values and goals; (3) a sense ofsecurity; (4) health; (5) social interaction; (6)self esteem; (7) communication; and (8) basicintellectual skills. Most home visitingprograms place some emphasis on one or moreof these eight domains, with the assumptionthat If e the most urgent family issues havebeen resolved satisfactorily, other less pressingbut important aspects of young children's healthand development can be addressed. Theauthors find evidence that programs whichtarget for change only one or a few areas offunctioning are not likely to have a lastingbeneficial effect, even on the targeted aspects.To be successful, home visiting programs mustbe comprehensive in their approach toaddressing children's and families' needs inmultiple domains of functioning. The authorsconclude with an analytical grid that can beused to describe and clarify the relationshipsamong the characteristics of home visitingprograms and their desired consequences. Theappendix offers an application of the grid todescribe the Infant Health and DevelopmentProgram.2 figures, 11 references.(HE9700608)164Home Visiting Programs for Families WithChildren Birth to Three: Results of aNational Survey.Form:Journal article.Authors:Roberts, R.N.; Wasik, B.H.Source:Journal of Early Intervention.14(3):274 284, 1990.Abstract:Researchers conducted a nationalsurvey to document the wide range of homevisiting prevention services provided to familiesthrough public and private health, education,and social services. They developed a 430 variable, 13 page questionnaire that surveyed115Maternal and Child Health(1) program affiliation, (2) population served,(3) child and parent characteristics, (4) purposesof the program for parents and children, (5)coordination of services for free standing andcombined programs, (6) funding, (7) specifichome visiting services provided, (8) deliverymodels for home visits, (9) curriculum forhome visiting services, (10) home visitoremployment and training, (11) supervision ofhome visitors, and (12) evaluation strategies.Researchers analyzed the responses of 643programs that exclusively served families withchildren from birth to 3 years.Results of thesurvey reported( 1 ) types of agencies thatemploy visiting for that age range, (2) types offamilies that receive home visiting services, (3)purposes for which home visits are conducted,(4) services provided to families, (5)organizational structures of home visitingprograms, and (6) educational levels required ofhome visitors and their supervisors.Findingsindicated that there is a network withincommunities that provides home based servicesto children from birth to 3 years. Theseservices are provided by health, education, andsocial service programs, though health andeducation are the predominant providers ofservice. Most programs used somecombination of professional andparaprofessional home visitors in providingservices to the families.Services are providedby individuals who have a relatively largeamount of professional training (very fewparaprofessionals). Programs have set minimumeducational requirements consistent with thetypes of services they provide. Programs reportthat home visitors do not carry excessive caseloads. Most programs have some form ofevaluation of their clients and programs.7 tables, 22 references. (HE9700489)165Home Visiting With Families in Poverty:Introducing the Concept of Culture.Form:Journal article.Author:Slaughter Defoe, D.T.Source:Future of Children.3(3):172 183,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author asserts thatcontemporary child and family interventionprograms too frequently neglect the culturalcontext in which programs are introduced. Theproblems of high case loads, scarce resources,and little or no attention to cultural context alltoo often characterize both prevention andtreatment programs. Home visitors do not havethe time, resources, or mission to assesscarefully the adaptive strengths and culturalecology of participating children and families.This assertion is illustrated with a discussion ofthe State of Illinois Department of Child andFamily Services program, which is offered asan example of a home visiting program usedinappropriately. The author argues thatcomprehensive service programs are what isneeded today, with program design anddevelopment taking into account the culturalecology of the participants including theirgeographical, historical, and contemporarybehavioral patterns. Four steps that areimportant in designing culturally appropriateservices are identified:(1) assess culturalcontext of the program; (2) establish andencourage an open dialogue regarding programgoals; (3) consider the culture of the programstaff; and (4) consider alternative programformats, such as group and center based care.The author illustrates the use of these steps withreference to some cultural characteristics ofAfrican American families, and stresses thatsimilar consideration of the characteristics ofother racial and ethnic groups is essential whenplanning their services. The author concludes116Maternal and Child Healthby stating that home visiting as a social supportstrategy is worthy of close scrutiny. However,the strategy is often used with little or nothought to cultural considerations.42 references. (HE9700610)166Home Visits: Necessary But Not Sufficient.Form:Journal article.Author: Weiss, H.B.Source:Future of Children.3(3):113 128,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the argumentthat home visits are a necessary, but notsufficient, component of a larger nationalstrategy to strengthen families and improve thehealth, well being, and positive life chance ofpoor children. The author first offers a briefexamination of the pertinent lessons about thestrengths and limits of home visit strategieslearned from America's first major effort toprovide home visits to poor families more than100 years ago.In the second section of thearticle, the evidence and experience from morecontemporary programs are examined to testthe notion that home visits are a necessarycomponent of a system of services to reach andserve disadvantaged families. The premisefrom which these modern programs work is thatin order to foster the early development ofchildren, especially disadvantaged ones, it isnecessary to intervene at home with parents tosupport and improve socialization, health, andeducation practices. Some of these programsrely on home visits as the exclusive means ofintervention, while others include them withother services. Additionally, a study of homevisit programs shows considerable variation ininitiative on many factors, including goals,content, timing, duration, and visitor and clientcharacteristics. There are, however, specialfeatures of home visiting programs that help tomake them effective and successful, such as (1)regular and frequent visits beginning in theprenatal period and continuing for the first 2 ormore years after birth, (2) a core educationalprogram and communication strategy designedto be responsive to parent needs, and (3) abroadening of content and goals to includeattention to a wider range of psychosocial andeconomic obstacles to healthy development andfamily functioning.In section three, the authorsuggests why home visits alone are insufficient.Studies of home visit implementation show thatthe visitor often uncovers family needs beyondthose related narrowly to the program focus.The home visiting program becomes lesseffective when there is a failure to provide theneeded information and attention. The fourthsection discusses the difficult question of howto develop a home visiting initiative that isfeasible and that helps to build a sufficientsystem of family support services to improvethe health, well being, and life chances of all,but especially of poor children and families.Finally, the author lays out a preliminary planfor a new home visiting initiative that is acatalyst for a broader system of services. Apreliminary plan for national home visitinglegislation is outlined. 63 references.(HE9700607)167Homeless Prenatal Program: A Model forEmpowering Homeless Pregnant Women.Form:Journal article.Authors: Ovrebo, B.; Ryan, M.; Jackson, K.;Hutchinson, K.Source:Health Education Quarterly.21(2):187 198, Summer 1994.Abstract: The Homeless Prenatal Program(HPP) is one of the first programs in thecountry to provide comprehensive prenatalservices to homeless pregnant women. The117Maternal and Child HealthHPP was established in a San Francisco,California, family shelter in 1989 to improvebirth outcomes and assist homeless women intransforming their lives. The HPP ascribes to amodel of empowerment that is both behavioraland structural as women are empowered to havehealthy birth outcomes and change their lifecircumstances. HPP provides clients with casemanagement, peer support, and advocacy. Themultifaceted staff consists of social workers,nurses, and community health outreachworkers. The main vehicle of empowerment isthe outreach worker support group in whichhomeless women share experiences and engagein honest dialogue in a safe environment. InHPP's service model, empowerment has twocentral tenets:(1) the mother child connectionand (2) the principle of giving back (to otherhomeless mothers what the community healthoutreach workers themselves once needed andreceived). Although exit from the program canoccur at any point, women are invited to staywith the program as long as they wish, tocontinue attending support group meetings, toreceive counseling, and to participate in familyplanning services. Researchers conducted aformative evaluation in 1992 to measure theprogram's effectiveness in improving neonataloutcomes, model of service delivery, andcommunity impact.Quantitative measuresassessed neonatal outcomes and short termeffects through internal and externalcomparisons of existing records of HPP clientsand county birth records. The qualitative aspectof the evaluation used participant observation todocument the processes of the support groups,outreach work, and clinic appointments andsemistructured interviews with the HPP staff toexplore the program's organizational structure,and to identify services provided by the HPPand assess the staff's understanding of theclients' needs and experiences. Programrecords of current and former clients wereanalyzed to determine the client's demographiccharacteristics, health status, and servicesreceived. The records of 214 clients wereanalyzed, revealing that the typical HPP client(1) is African American, age 27, with one ormore children; (2) enters HPP during hersecond trimester of pregnancy; and (3) has hadno prior prenatal care.Evaluation resultsindicated that HPP is achieving its programgoals.1 figure, 37 references. (HE9400793)168Immunizing America's Children: A ModelWorkshop.Form:Information package.Corporate Author:Healthy Mothers, HealthyBabies Coalition, Immunization Education andAction Committee.Source: Washington, DC, Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition, ImmunizationEducation and Action Committee. 13 pagemanual and 9 tip sheets, n.d.Abstract: Immunizing America's Children: AModel Workshop is designed to help healtheducators highlight and enhance the effect ofexisting immunization efforts in educating thecommunity about childhood immunizations.The overriding theme of the workshop is that asingle intervention is unlikely to lead to asustained, long term improvement inimmunization rates.Rather, a collaborativeeffort by public health departments, privatephysicians, hospitals, day care centers, pediatricnurses, civic groups, policymakers, and otherswould be necessary to achieve the UnitedStates' immunization goals by 1996. Theworkshop model provides an opportunity forthe exchange of innovative ideas and strategiesfor increasing access, reducing barriers,forming partnerships, and sharing information.The workshop can help increase awareness ofage appropriate immunization, enhance existingpartnerships, and attract new partners who can118Maternal and Child Healthparticipate in long term education efforts. Thispublication contains background materials andincludes a sample task list, invitation, agenda,and press release.It provides recommendationsto maternal and child health programs that canbe tailored to a specific community's needs.(HE9700467)169Inside Home Visiting Programs.Form:Journal article.Author: Powell, D.R.Source:Future of Children.3(3):23 38,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author discusses the widevariation that exists among home visitingprograms in their content, theory, and operation.Several current programs are discussed toillustrate different home visiting dimensionsand approaches. Programs focus on parents ofyoung children from pregnancy through age 6years; the programs represent the differencesamong populations served as well as thedifferences among approaches to home visiting.Several variables influence the underlyingtheory for home visiting programs:(1) thespecification of goals and outcomes; (2)assumptions, such as family resourcefulnessand determinants of behavior; (3) strategies foreffective change in individuals; and (4) thesponsoring agency. Home visiting programsvary not only in their theoretical andorganizational content but also in the specificsof their operation, particularly in four areas:(1) the content or focus of the home visit,(2) the intensity of the program, (3) themechanisms for responding to specific parentand child needs, and (4) the staffing patterns.The author notes that only one program, theMother Child Home Program, has beenevaluated by employing the rigorous techniqueof random assignment. However, the keyelements of program design outlined are usefulin conceptualizing potential or analyzingexisting evaluations. The author does not drawconclusions as to which approaches may bemore effective than others in achieving positiveresults, but does agree that some programsappear to better serve particular populations.The decisions about program methods shouldbe driven by the needs and characteristics of thetarget population. The author concludes thathome visiting is not a uniform practice but is arichly textured and highly varied servicedelivery method whose effectiveness differsacross settings and populations just as much asits design.1 table, 37 references. (HE9700603)170Mobile Van Programs That ProvideImmunization Services: A Compendium ofPrograms.Form:Directory.Corporate Author: Healthy Mothers, HealthyBabies Coalition, Immunization Education andAction Committee.Source: Washington, DC, Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition, ImmunizationEducation and Action Committee.132 p., April 1996.Abstract:This directory is a reference ofexisting mobile van programs and a resourcefor those considering starting a program. Thedirectory is organized as a state by statesummary of mobile van programs throughoutthe United States. The National Center forEducation in Maternal and Child Healthsurveyed the mobile van programs on:(1)whom they serve, (2) what services theyprovide, (3) who sponsors the programs, (4)what tracking systems are used (if any), and (5)what parent and professional educationalmaterials are used. The guide answers thequestions:(1) if you were looking to purchase119Maternal and Child Healthanother van, what features would be mostuseful? and (2) what resources wouldeffectively eliminate the need for yourprogram? The Immunization Education andAction Committee of the Healthy Mothers,Healthy Babies Coalition encourages the readerto use this directory as a reference whenworking with existing programs or as a resourceif beginning a program. (HE9700466)171Model Program for Providing HealthServices for Migrant Farmworker Mothersand Children.Form:Journal article.Authors: Watkins, E.L.; Larson, K.; Harlan,C; Young, S.Source:Public Health Reports.105(6):567 575, November December 1990.Abstract: The School of Public Health of theUniversity of North Carolina at Chapel Hilldeveloped a collaborative effort to assist the Tri County Community Health Center in improvingthe health of migrant mothers and children andto use the educational and consultant services ofthe state's Title V. Researchers describe theproject and discuss (1) sociodemographiccharacteristics of the maternal and childpopulation of migrant and seasonalfarmworkers who work in North Carolina andreceived primary care services at the Tri CountyCommunity Health Center between April 1985and October 1987, (2) their health statusindicators, and (3) trends in service use.Participants were 359 pregnant farmworkersand 560 children ages birth through 5 years.More than half of the women were Hispanicand almost all of the white women weremarried to Hispanic men. The total group ofpregnant farmworkers had a mean age of 23.1years, and 47 percent had completed 8 or feweryears of education. The health problemsreported most frequently for the women duringtheir pregnancy were urinary tract infections(23 percent) and sexually transmitted diseases(7 percent).Eighty four percent of theparticipants had dietary recalls showing calorieintakes of under 90 percent of therecommended dietary allowance. Of the 318participants for whom pregnancy outcome datawere available, 286 had live births; 8.4 percenthad low birthweight infants. A Spanish speaking staff of two public health nurses, apublic health nutritionist, and a social workerdeveloped a tracking system to encourageparticipants to maintain their health care afterthey left the center's service area. The projectstaff primary interventions included outreachand early case finding, coordination betweenthe center's programs and other health andsocial service agencies, and a health educationprogram conducted to train migrant farmworkerwomen as lay health advisors.Project activitiesincluded designing a nutrient scoring system ofthe participants' diets and presenting a series ofclasses in English, Spanish, and Haitian Creoleon appropriate health practices and the use ofhealth and social services to migrantfarmworker women recruited as lay healthadvisors.Classes were scheduled at locationsconvenient to the migrant farmworkers'residences (e.g., labor camps, church facilities,and the Migrant Head Start Center). Forty twowomen completed the lay health advisortraining program, 10 of whom participated formore than one season. To promote continuityof care, migrant farmworker women andchildren received copies of their health recordson the first visit, together with stampedpostcards to notify center staff of their newlocation when they moved. During 1986 and1987, (1) the number of children with completeimmunizations rose from 41 percent to morethan 60 percent, (2) more than 75 percent of thechildren received a developmental screening,(3) more women initiated care in the first120Maternal and Child Healthtrimester of pregnancy and made nine or moreprenatal care visits, (4) the proportion ofwomen breastfeeding their newborns increasedfrom 3 1 percent to 52 percent, and (5) there wasa significant decrease in the mean number ofvisits to the health center among infants, from4.5 visits to 3.1. The project demonstrated howestablishment of communication between thetwo systems of care, the migrant health centerand the Title V maternal and child healthprograms, enriched the services available tomigrant farmworker women and children andimproved their health status.9 tables,22 references. (HE9700092)172Nike Footed Health Workers Deal With theProblems of Adolescent Pregnancy.Form:Journal article.Author:Perino, S.S.Source:Public Health Reports.107(2):208 212, March April 1992.Abstract: The proposed Nike Footed HealthWorker Project (NFHW) seeks to trainadolescent mothers to become home visitinghealth workers in their own community.Projectobjectives are (1) to graduate 25 young motherswith a high school diploma and trainingnecessary to provide prenatal and postnatalhealth care, teach parenting skills, and counselpregnant and parenting adolescents; (2) toassign the NFHW's to jobs within a private orgovernment agency, each with a minimumcaseload of 10 pregnant or parentingadolescents; and (3) to receive loan repaymentsregularly from each NFHW. The adolescentmothers will complete high school while theyare simultaneously trained in the principles ofbasic prenatal and postnatal care, childdevelopment, nutrition, and counseling. Theresidential project's enrollees will spend 8hours a day, 5 days a week in training; for one half of each day, they will work toward earningtheir high school diploma; for the other half,they will fulfill requirements necessary tobecome an NFHW. After1 year, they willreturn to their own communities to serve thatpopulation. After signing a contract, traineeswill begin the project and receive a base salaryin the form of a student loan.Eligible for meritwage increases, they must use their salaries tomake preset contributions to the project forhousing, food, and child care expenses. Upongraduation, NFHW's will work out of localclinics and hospitals to bring basic care to thehomes of pregnant teenagers. Although notassociated with the Nike Corporation, projecthealth workers will wear the popular sneakers(1) to emphasize that their services are mobileand accessible and that health need not beconfined within clinic walls and (2) to associatethemselves with Nike's advertising slogan, JustDo It. NFHW's will help prepare expectantmothers for the arrival of their infant and willcontinue to work with the mother and herprimary health care providers as the newmother learns how to parent.1 table,7 references. (HE9201397)173Prenatal Education Outcomes for PregnantAdolescents and Their Infants UsingTrained Volunteers.Form:Journal article.Authors:Jones, M.E.; Mondy, L.W.Source:Journal of Adolescent Health Care.ll(5):437 444, September 1990.Abstract: A study evaluated the effects oflessons taught by trained nonprofessionalvolunteers to pregnant adolescents incommunity prenatal clinics. The ServingPregnant and Parenting Adolescents' Needs(SPPAN) project trained nonprofessionalvolunteers to serve as teachers of prenatal121Maternal and Child Healthlessons to low income pregnant adolescents andas postpartum hospital visitors to adolescentmothers. The study compared SPPAN projectparticipants with nonproject comparisonsubjects on the number of prenatal visits; returnrate for postpartum care, family planning followup and annual visit; return for a well child visitwithin the first postpartum year; return toschool following delivery; number of childabuse/neglect reports; and the rate of repeatbirths within 2 years of the index birth. Thestudy population included 210 participants and189 comparison subjects aged 18 years oryounger attending the same hospital in DallasCounty, Texas. The study divided participantsinto high or low treatment groups according toattendance; the high treatment group subjectsparticipated in eight or more lessons. Theproject used a system of rewards for attendanceat each session and at the postpartum visit.Researchers collected data on the participantsfrom clinic, hospital, and school districtrecords.Results of data analysis and log linearmodeling techniques suggest that a prenataleducation program of lessons taught by trainednonprofessional volunteers as an adjunct towell administered medical care can affect short term compliance with health regimens in wayssimilar to more comprehensive and expensiveintervention programs. 4 tables, 18 references.(HE9 100289)174Review of Research on Home Visiting forPregnant Women and Parents of YoungChildren.Form:Journal article.Authors:Olds, D.L.; Kitzman, H.Source:Future of Children.3(3):53 92,Winter 1993.Abstract: The authors review the results ofliterature concerning the effectiveness of homevisiting programs in improving the lives ofchildren and families. Their reviewconcentrates on randomized trials of homevisiting programs aimed at reducing the rates ofpreterm delivery and low birthweight, andpromoting the health and development ofparents and young children. The reviewincludes results of 3 1 home visiting programsthat have focused on:(1) preventing pretermdelivery and low birthweight, (2) improving thehealth and development of low birthweight orpreterm infants and their parents, (3) enhancingthe well being of children from families atsocial or economic risk, (4) families in whichthe child has a developmental disability orchronic disease, and (5) costs and savings thatresult from averted use of other services andincreases in government tax revenues resultingfrom improvements in parent and child well being. Outcomes of the programs are discussedincluding (1) changes in parental behavior,home environment, child development andbehavior; (2) child abuse; (3) rates of pretermand low birthweight births; and (4) health careuse. The authors found that narrowly focusedhome visiting programs did not take advantageof many opportunities for the promotion ofnumerous aspects of maternal, child, and familyhealth. The evidence suggests that theseprograms were less successful.Results suggestthat home visiting programs in the past havebenefitted some families but not others, andhave improved some outcomes but alloutcomes. These differences may be the resultof several characteristics of the home visitingprograms including their comprehensiveness ofpurpose and goals, level of staffing, frequencyof visits, and the populations they are designedto serve. Also, many of the studies failed tomeasure what the programs tried to affect. Theauthors conclude that programs that (1) arecomprehensive in focus, (2) have frequentvisits, (3) are staffed by well trainedprofessionals, and (4) serve families that are122Maternal and Child Healthinitially at increased risk for poor outcomes aremore likely to demonstrate success. 4 tables,68 references. (HE9700605)175Staffing Issues for Home VisitingPrograms.Form:Journal article.Author: Wasik, B.H.Source:Future of Children.3(3):140 157,Winter 1993.Abstract: The author outlines some of thecritical considerations for the recruitment,training, and support of home visitors, andoffers guidelines concerning the staffing ofhome visiting programs. A historical review ofhome visiting indicates that the roles of homevisitors have shifted as philosophy and beliefsabout human services have changed. Overtime, new responsibilities have been created forhome visitors. Program designers andadministrators need to consider five importantissues to develop a quality program staff:(1)professional experience or education; (2) race,ethnicity, and culture; (3) experience, age, andmaturity; (4) sex; and (5) interpersonal andhelping skills. Administrators must alsoconsider the training needs for home visitors,the supervision and support in addition totraining that home visitors need after they arehired, and the implications of sometimesstressful working conditions for staff turnover.However, the most important criterion is acandidate's initial level of interpersonal andcommunication skills. The author concludesthat to make good staffing decisions, programsshould first determine what their specific goalsand objectives are and then decide whatknowledge and skills the home visitors musthave to meet those goals and objectives.1 table,50 references. (HE9700609)176Strengthening the Community: TheEmerging Role of Outreach: A Manual forOutreach Workers.Form: Manual.Corporate Author: Ohio Department ofHealth, Ohio Infant Mortality ReductionInitiatives Program.Source: Columbus, OH, Ohio Department ofHealth, Ohio Infant Mortality ReductionInitiatives Program, 124 p., September 1996.Abstract: The Ohio Department of Health,Ohio Infant Mortality Reduction InitiativesProgram (OIMRI). OIMRI is a federally fundedprogram that aims to reduce infant mortality byimproving birth outcomes and promoting infanthealth.Currently, the Ohio Department ofHealth Funds 14 local projects to identify andrecruit into care the most at risk pregnantwomen, and to follow them through theirpregnancy, postpartum period, and the infant'sfirst year of life. The outreach concept has beentraditionally used as an approach to providingprenatal and other health care services to themost at risk pregnant women. This approachinvolves door to door canvassing, needsassessment, care planning, referrals, and homevisiting. This manual is a guide on how tocarry out an outreach and home visiting project.Subjects covered in the manual include(1)overview of pregnancy, (2) canvassing andsafety skills, (3) contraceptives and sexuallytransmitted diseases, (4) substance abuse duringpregnancy, (5) case management andaccountability, (6) home visiting: how andwhen, and (7) the first year of life:well childand immunizations. (HE9700469)123Maternal and Child Health177Universal Home Visiting: ARecommendation From the U.S. AdvisoryBoard on Child Abuse and Neglect.Form:Journal article.Author: Krugman, R.D.Source:Future of Children.3(3):184 191,Winter 1993.Abstract:In 1991, the United States AdvisoryBoard on Child Abuse and Neglectrecommended that the federal governmentimplement a new initiative to phase in universalvoluntary home visiting for children during theneonatal period to help prevent child abuse andneglect in the United States. According to theauthor, the 15 member Board'srecommendation for home visiting was shapedby (1) Dr. David Olds' promising researchfindings regarding home visiting, (2)communications with providers of homevisiting services around the country, and (3) theBoard members' intuitive belief that homevisiting makes good sense. Five options foraction were included in the Board'srecommendation:(1) launch pilot projects, (2)direct appropriate sections of the Department ofHealth and Human Services (DHHS) tostimulate the development of volunteerprograms, (3) direct appropriate sections of theDHHS to attempt to persuade insurers to coverthe costs of home visiting, (4) direct theAssistant Secretary for Health to ensure thathome visiting services are provided through thehealth care programs of the Indian HealthService, and (5) direct the Assistant Secretaryfor Health to attempt to persuade theDepartment of Defense to provide homevisiting services to military families.10 references. (HE970061 1)178Using Health Education Aides inCounseling Pregnant Women.Form:Journal article.Author: Conn, R.H.Source:Public Health Reports.83(11):979