And during this COVID or post COVID era where people are coughing in elevators and different people around, and you’re trying to make sure they’re [the patient] not getting sick before your next surgery. And, you’re like, have to protect you because you don’t want them to get sick. Then they postpone it [the surgery] another couple of months.” (Caregiver of patient) The concept of ease of access was reinforced by survey participants. Two of the 3 respondents reported that a benefit of the proposed move is that “It would be faster to get to the Center when I arrive to NYU Langone.” The remaining respondent reported that “It would be easier for me to find the Center when I arrive to NYU Langone” as a benefit to the move. With regards to accessibility, caregivers noted that moving to a first floor location would improve access for patients and/or caregivers in wheelchairs, stretchers, walkers as well as parents with small children using strollers. The importance of accessibility was also reinforced by two caregivers: “I think most would appreciate it [being on the first floor]. I think for transportation, we’re talking about transportation of patients coming into the facility so many different ways: wheelchairs, stretchers. So I think being on the first floor, that’s probably another piece of it that’s actually more beneficial.” (Caregiver of two patients). “You have to take into consideration parents coming with strollers or some patients in wheelchairs. So I think the accessibility of it [Center] being on the first floor, it’s going to be much, much better.” (Patient). May 2023 17One patient did mention a concern around security. Since the new location will be on the first floor, she questioned if this could pose a security risk for the patients. “With it being directly on the first floor, I'm not sure if there will be security present. But just anyone being able to just walk in... I know for the Congenital Heart Center, a lot of times for patients, they do need to undress and get gowned up because of EKGs that may need to be performed. So just ensuring that there's security or someone around to protect the patients and the staff that are there so that no one in that area can just walk in because it is located directly across the street from the hospital. Unfortunately, a lot of homeless people hang around, like the emergency room departments, and they just kind of wander around. So just preventing possibly something like that happening.” (Caregiver) The social worker we interviewed raised the importance of ensuring the new space is accessible for all the transport and equipment needs of their most medically complex patients, which can often require a good deal of space and wide doors to accommodate. “One concern I have is ensuring everything is accessible we have many patients on stretchers who need to be moved within clinic. For very complex, we try to bring everything to them but most we have to move around so make sure doors are wide enough for stretchers and wheelchairs etc.” (Congenital Heart Center Social worker) The Applicant indicated that the space will meet all ADA regulations. The social worker was concerned about no longer being located within the main hospital building given that it is not uncommon for a patient to need emergency services during a visit to the Center. While the current location within the main hospital allows them to send patients directly to the emergency department, pediatric intensive care unit (PICU), or inpatient admissions, the proposed new location will require medical staff to call an ambulance to move the patient across the street, which has implications for both delays in the delivery of life saving care to patients and for cost to commercially insured families who will receive a bill for the ambulance needed to transport their child across the street. The social worker explained: “I do worry just about the logistics of being across the street and no longer located within the hospital and what that will mean and how quickly we’ll be able to mobilize patients, too. Because I feel like our congenital patients, when they decompensate, they usually decompensate pretty quickly…if we’re waiting for an ambulance, you don’t know what that timing looks like. And right now, we can call a code on this unit and people will come running from everywhere.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) Highlighting the concern around cost that families may incur due to needing an ambulance in these types of circumstances, the social worker described: “We are located in the hospital currently because we were admitting directly to the hospital from the clinic so to streamline it, they nested us in here. In moving May 2023 18across the street, for admitting to the hospital, we’ll now have to call an ambulance to transport them across the street and the family will be billed for that. The Medicaid population, OK but for commercial insurance, it could be a $500 bill they will receive. With financial stressors the families already face, this is another expense.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) In response to this concern, the Independent Entity reviewed the transfer process with the Applicant. As stated, there is a standard process that has been used regularly to manage emergency transfers from multiple locations within the NYULH delivery system. It includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. In the past 12 months at the Center, there have been zero cardiac arrests or code resuscitations. Because some transfers are billed services, the Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are unable to pay. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) Another concern raised by stakeholders was around access to resources or supplies during the visit. Multiple participants discussed that the average length of visit to the Center is two or more hours due to the various testing that occurs during the visit (e.g., EKGs, Echocardiograms, etc.). Moving across the street could limit access to resources like diapers or breast pumps that families with infants and young children often need, as discussed by the social worker: “We’re still technically an outpatient clinic. And even though we’re located within the hospital, we do have access to some resources if we need things like diapers and formula and breast pumps and things like that. But it’s going be more of a challenge, I think, when we do move, though, because we’re not going to have those things so readily available…Sometimes we’re able to get a can of formula from the hospital or a breast pump for a mom to be able to pump if she didn’t bring her stuff with her. So all of those things usually require us leaving this clinic and running up to one of the units to grab them with permission for supervision.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) In response to this concern, the Independent Entity verified that all current supplies and resources will be available at the new location. Lastly, the social worker mentioned a concern with staffing needs keeping up with the expansion. “It’s really also from, you know, the resource allocation. A lot of services are expanding and the staffing is not following suit…So eventually I anticipate I’ll be running back and forth across the street to cover clinic and see patients in the ICU. And there will be many other providers doing the same thing. And so just figuring out what that looks like also, for the wait times, if they have to wait to see us because we’re either traveling back and forth or in the hospital seeing other patients, and then coming back over to the clinic.” (Congenital Heart Center social worker) May 2023 19The question of sufficient staffing with the move included concern around availability of language interpreters for the new location across the street. It was noted that there are already few in person interpreters, and the question was raised if their availability would be compromised with the Center’s move to the new location. In response to this concern, the Independent Entity verified that as the Center grows, the Applicant with analyze staffing needs and add staff in response to patient volume and needs. 12. Did any relevant stakeholders, especially those considered medically underserved, not participate in the meaningful engagement portion of the Health Equity Impact Assessment? If so, list. The medically underserved groups we were unable to reach include Medicaid insured individuals and immigrants. As noted above (see question 11), program staff outreached to 13 individuals intending to engage members of medically underserved groups; however, only 4 individuals were available for interviews. STEP 3 MITIGATION 1. If the project is implemented, how does the Applicant plan to foster effective communication about the resulting impact(s) to service or care availability to the following: a. People of limited English speaking ability b. People with speech, hearing or visual impairments c. If the Applicant does not have plans to foster effective communication, what does the Independent Entity advise? a. People of Limited English Speaking Ability: The Applicant will ensure that all community members are fully informed about the changes in service and care availability resulting from the project. To effectively communicate with individuals of limited English speaking ability, the Applicant plans to implement a comprehensive language access strategy. This includes translating all relevant informational materials such as marketing flyers, press releases, and in facility signage into multiple languages prevalent within the community. Furthermore, signage at the current locations will be displayed in both English and Spanish, clearly announcing the Center’s relocation. Letters detailing the move will be sent out in both languages to current patients. Additionally, the Center staff will actively communicate the details of this move during patient appointments and through telephone calls as patients contact the Center for appointments. b. People with Speech, Hearing, or Visual Impairments: For individuals with speech, hearing, or visual impairments, the Applicant has adopted a digital accessibility plan that adheres to the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines May 2023 20(WCAG) version 2.2. This ensures that the Applicant's digital communications, including their website and social media platforms, are accessible to users with disabilities. This approach includes providing alternative text for images, captions for videos, and ensuring that all digital content is navigable via keyboard for those who cannot use a mouse. c. If the Applicant Does Not Have Plans to Foster Effective Communication: The Applicant has an effective communication plan. That said, a caregiver and the social worker identified an important issue with the previous move, that is the need to ensure that appointment reminders are updated to include the new location. This will be addressed in this communication plan. 2. What specific changes are suggested so the project better meets the needs of each medically underserved group (identified above)? Stakeholders had the following specific suggestions for how the project can better meet their needs as they considered the impact of the move: • Ensure a comprehensive staff recruitment and retention plan is developed and communicated as the Center opens and as it grows. Since this was a significant concern, it will be critical for the Applicant not only to develop and implement an ongoing recruitment and retention plan but to communicate it routinely so that patients, caregivers, and staff see that the Applicant has a believable path for ensuring appropriate staff. • Ensure there is a social worker on site at the new location. There was a heavy focus across interviews on the role of child life specialists and social workers serving the pediatric patients and their families. Patients/caregivers both emphasized their importance as they spoke about their experiences and articulated actual requests to ensure social workers are present at the new location. The staff will stay the same at the new location; however, as patient volume grows, social workers will be critical to include in the among new staff. • Ensure the new location is communicated clearly. Even with the most comprehensive communication plans, which the Applicant has laid out, there may still be confusion about what services they still have to get at the previous location, such as imaging. The Independent Entity encourages the Applicant to review their plan with caregivers and staff to get feedback on any possible issues that may arise. Additionally, a caregiver and the social worker who had gone through the previous move of the Congenital Heart Center described confusion with the last move because the new location was not updated in appointment reminders sent to patients. Both stressed the importance of ensuring this previously missing piece is remedied for this move. May 2023 21• Consider improvements to the new space. Caregivers noted that the toilets at the current location are too high for small children as well as the desire to have a play area for patients, comparable to the one now at the Congenital Heart Center. This will help children and their families make it through what are generally long appointments spanning several hours at the Center. These types of changes will improve patient and caregiver experience. 3. How can the Applicant engage and consult impacted stakeholders on forthcoming changes to the project? The individuals who participated in the interviews as part of the meaningful engagement portion of this assessment would be an excellent group to return to for future inputs in addition to a more diverse group of caregivers. We propose they be contacted 3 6 months after the relocation to speak to the impact of the project and be consulted on any potential improvements. We propose interviews, so the Applicant can get nuanced information about the impact and potential improvements. We also would propose a patient survey across the Center’s patients at the same time interval to capture perspectives about the relocation. 4. How does the project address systemic barriers to equitable access to services or care? If it does not, how can the project be modified? Several issues around systemic barriers to equitable access to services and care were identified by stakeholders during our meaningful engagement work for this assessment. From an access perspective, the proposed move to a first floor location would improve the experience of receiving services at the Center for patients with mobility issues. Additionally, the new location would help eliminate risk of exposure to pathogens in elevators improving patients experience receiving care for those who are immunocompromised or who have an upcoming surgery. However, the move would impact access to emergency response for patients experiencing serious or life threatening medical conditions while at the Center. The new location across the street from the main hospital was seen as a barrier that would prohibit care teams from being able to easily admit patients needing elevated care or emergency services in the moment of a medical emergency. A financial burden to families was also identified in this scenario since calling an ambulance to transport the patient from the Center to the hospital across the street would result in patients with commercial insurance receiving a bill for ambulatory transport. It was noted that these families are already facing financial stressors as they navigate their child’s illness and related medical bills, so incurring the additional cost of an ambulance to move their child across the street for emergency care or hospital admission would be yet another financial burden. Mitigation of these barriers is critical for families. To address these barriers, the Applicant ensured there is a standard process that has been used regularly to manage emergency transfers from multiple locations within the NYULH delivery system, which includes an algorithm for making transfer decisions and staff training on the process. The Applicant offers support and financing options for patients who are May 2023 22unable to pay for billed transfers. (https://nyulangone.org/files/charity care financial assistance.pdf) STEP 4 MONITORING 1. What are existing mechanisms and measures the Applicant already has in place that can be leveraged to monitor the potential impacts of the project? At the enterprise level, NYU’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity develops, implements, and disseminates evidence based solutions to advance health equity in clinical care, medical education, and research. The Applicant has developed a health equity impact dashboard and has increased efforts to collect self reported data related to patient demographics in the electronic medical record to facilitate efforts to track the impact of different projects on medically underserved groups. The dashboard specifically includes the pediatric patients of all services, including congenital heart, and captures data on all patients, including indicators such as race, ethnicity, gender/gender identity, age, preferred language, financial class grouping, insurance grouping, median household income, and others. The Applicant will leverage this dashboard and data to reveal and address inequities and disparities as it implements the project. NYULH also tracks a variety of measures to ensure health equity is maintained among patients, which will continue to be used after the implementation of this project. Data, such as those submitted to Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS), can be stratified by traditional medically underserved groups (e.g., racial and/or ethnic minorities). Some examples of data submitted to STS include: • Risk adjusted operative mortality • Overall Aggregate Postoperative Mean LOS NYULH also regularly reports on data related to transplant one year survival rate and will also continue to maintain, track, and submit this data in the context of its congenital heart patients (for those who receive a heart transplant). Additionally, children’s services and outcomes are monitored through an existing dashboard, which provides a holistic view of health and healthcare services for children across the NYULH delivery system. Pediatric congenital heart services are part of that dashboard. At least monthly, a children’s safety and quality committee reviews the dashboard and has a standard process for responding to needed improvements. 2. What new mechanisms or measures can be created or put in place by the Applicant to ensure that the Applicant addresses the findings of the HEIA? New mechanisms the Applicant indicated they would consider implementing include requiring health equity training for staff and adding questions related to health equity to consumer satisfaction surveys. Using the definitions provided by the state, the Applicant may re work their internal dashboards to report changes in metrics for the specific May 2023 23medically underserved groups identified to better align with the way other organizations and the State are measuring and monitoring outcomes. The Applicant should also consider caregiver and staff interviews and surveys after the project is implemented to obtain qualitative input about how changes have been received and what improvements could be made. STEP 5 DISSEMINATION The Applicant is required to publicly post the CON application and the HEIA on its website within one week of acknowledgement by the Department. The Department will also publicly post the CON application and the HEIA through NYSE CON within one week of the filing. OPTIONAL: Is there anything else you would like to add about the health equity impact of this project that is not found in the above answers? (250 words max) This project is important to understand as it relates to another forthcoming project, that is the expansion of PICU services. While this project requires mitigation strategies to address some of the unintended impacts, it does allow for an increase in vital services to meet the increased need for them in the service area. SECTION BELOW TO BE COMPLETED BY THE APPLICANT SECTION C. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN Acknowledgment by the Applicant that the Health Equity Impact Assessment was reviewed by the facility leadership before submission to the Department. This section is to be completed by the Applicant, not the Independent Entity. I.AcknowledgementI, Joseph J. Lhota, attest that I have reviewed the Health Equity Impact Assessment for the Pediatric Congenital Heart Center move to 577 First Avenue that has been prepared by the Independent Entity, Deb Zahn Consulting, LLC. JOSEPH J. LHOTA Name EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND VICE DEAN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER and CHIEF OF STAFF Title JUNE 24, 2024 Date May 2023 24 May 2023 25II. Mitigation Plan If the project is approved, how has or will the Applicant mitigate any potential negative impacts to medically underserved groups identified in the Health Equity Impact Assessment? (1000 words max) Please note: this narrative must be made available to the public and posted conspicuously on the Applicant’s website until a decision on the application has been made. Through the implementation of this project, NYULH aims to enhance the patient experience and ensure patients are receiving the superior care that they deserve in locations that are easy to locate and navigate. NYULH has extensive experience with projects similar in scope (i.e., relocations). While the HEIA highlights some potential issues with this move, we are in the early stages of the planning process and are giving all concerns strong consideration. Regarding concerns about emergency transport services, should a patient require a higher level of care we will adhere to the same stringent escalation policies we currently have in place for all off site care. In the past 12 months in the Congenital Heart Center’s location in Kimmel, there have been no cardiac arrests or code resuscitations or other medical emergencies requiring transfer. However, in the event an emergency medical condition is identified, NYULH will stabilize the patient and expeditiously transfer them to the Emergency Department (ED) to provide the necessary care. It is crucial to emphasize that the Center’s entrance is located approximately 50 yards from the ED entrance doors. Under Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act (EMTALA) requirements, the new location falls well within the 250 yard rule, supporting our ability to utilize stretchers or wheelchairs to safely transport stabilized patients directly to the ED within our hospital. While there may be situations in which it is determined that an ambulance is the most appropriate means of transfer, the general process would not necessarily require ambulance assisted transport. As such, we are unaware of any valid concerns with the provision of an ambulance to support transfer from the new location to the ED. In the rare circumstance that an ambulance may be needed, there are ample financial resources available for patients should they need financial assistance. (The Independent Entity reviewed NYULH’s Financial Assistance and Charity Care Policy extensively and referenced this in the Health Equity Impact Assessment.) Maintaining appropriate staffing levels is a key part of our site implementation planning. We will determine the most effective staffing based on volume trends and patient care needs. NYULH is committed to using actual data to plan staffing needs. Regarding recruitment, we are proactive in our efforts, continuously filling positions despite May 2023 26industry wide challenges. Our comprehensive recruitment plan will be in place well before the clinic's opening to ensure smooth operations. We assess our staffing needs regularly based on patient volume and service demands. We also offer competitive salaries, professional development opportunities, and a supportive work environment to attract and retain top talent. Regarding concerns obtaining supplies needed to support families with infants during visits at the Center, NYULH will have all equipment, supplies, and supports needed to care for patients from infants to young adults. As previously mentioned, there will be a detailed implementation planning process to ensure that everything included within the clinic today, as well as any additional items needed, are available prior to the start of patient visits in this new location. Staff travel between buildings is a common aspect of our urban hospital campus environment and is managed through planned and coordinated visits. Our staff are accustomed to moving between different locations as part of their daily routines. The new clinic location, being just across the street from the current location within Kimmel Pavilion, does not pose an undue burden on staff as the nature of travel between locations will be planned and scheduled as well as focused on organized transitions of care rather than urgent, unplanned movements. Supports and services are in place to ensure that urgent situations are managed effectively without requiring staff to rush between locations. This structured approach ensures continuity of care for our patients, with the same familiar staff attending to them both in the clinic and the hospital settings. This approach ensures that our professional staff can deliver high quality care in both settings, maintaining the continuity of care that is crucial for our patient's well being.