Brown NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 395 2023 Pipe Labels shall be installed every 5 feet in concealed areas and every 10 feet in un concealed areas and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in letters not less than 1 inch high for pipe 2 1/2 inches and smaller, 2 inches high for 3 inch pipe and larger. Markers shall have backgrounds of different colors for the various service groups. Pipe labels shall be color coded as follows: Fire Quenching Liquids White on Red TEXT Toxic and Corrosive Fluids Black on Orange TEXT Flammable Fluids Black on Yellow TEXT Combustible Fluids White on Brown TEXT Potable, Cooling, Boiler Feed and other Water White on Green TEXT Compressed Air White on Blue TEXT Steam Black on Yellow TEXT Chilled Water White on Cyan TEXT Hot Water / Reheat Hot Water White on Red TEXT Condensate Black on Orange TEXT Fuel Oil White on Brown TEXT Duct Labels shall be installed every 20 feet and shall be self adhesive labels with direction of flow arrows and the name of the service printed in black letters not less than 4 inches high. Outside Air White on Blue TEXT General Exhaust Black on White TEXT Toilet Exhaust Black on Orange TEXT Return Air Black on Yellow TEXT Supply Air White on Green TEXT BMS Black on Orange TEXT Valve Tags: Each valve tag shall be 3 inch diameter or square, brass, aluminum or stainless steel. Lettering shall be viewable from a distance of 10 feet. A schedule showing all valve locations, size, and service shall be provided. Approved Manufacturers: a. Brimar Industries Incorporated b. Seton Nameplate Corp. c. W. H. Brady Co. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 396 2023 54. Temperature Controlled Rooms (walk in box / cold room / environmental box) Refer to the Miscellaneous subsection within the Architectural section of these Design Guidelines for all engineering requirements. 55. Unit Heaters Unit shall be supplied with a unit mounted thermostat. Approved Manufacturers: a. Electric 1) Berko 2) Brasch 3) Chromalox 4) Indeeco 5) Dayton b. Steam/Water 1) Modine 2) Rittling 3) Sterling 56. Valves Dielectric fittings shall be installed between all dissimilar metals. For Manhattan Main Campus: All campus primary chilled water valves to be 300lb rated. Secondary chilled water valves shall be designed based upon their designed system pressure. Primary CHW service and steam service shall all be stainless steel ball valves. All system pressures shall be specified on design drawings. Ball valves (2 ½” maximum) must be used for manual isolation on all chilled water, secondary water, reheat water and radiation water systems. Butterfly valves are to be used on larger piping (3” and above). All valves and piping systems shall be designed to be able to close off to atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. All valves 3” and larger shall be pressure checked and bench tested at the factory. Factory shall provide a certified report based on testing. Testing shall show that valve can hold rated pressure based on atmospheric pressure on either side of valve. Any valve that is above 7 feet shall be provided with a chain wheel for manipulation of valve from the floor. All high pressure steam isolation valves shall have manual warmup valves for startup. High Pressure steam valves shall be high performance OS&Y gate valves butterfly valves are not allowed. Valves shall be rated to 500 degrees F. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 397 2023 Approved Manufacturers: a. Balanced Check 1) Fabrotech 2) Hager 3) Mueller b. Balancing Valves (Water) 1) T & A 2) Armstrong 3) Autoflow 4) Flow Design 5) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 6) Bell and Gosset c. Ball Type 1) Apollo 2) Jamesbury 3) Milwaukee 4) Rockwell d. Butterfly 1) DeZurik 2) Flow Seal 3) Bray 4) Jamesbury 5) Keystone 6) W.K.M. e. Pressure Relief Valves Provide at each expansion tank, plate and frame heat exchanger or any pressurized water vessel, and as required by Code. Relief valve shall match maximum allowable working pressure of piece of equipment. Relief piping shall be sized according to outlet size of relief valve and shall be piped to floor not floor drain. Steam relief vents shall be piped to atmosphere. 1) Apollo 2) Consolidated 3) Farris 4) Fulflo Specialties Co. 5) Kunkle 6) Lunkenheimer 7) Watts 8) Aquatrol series 69 (water) 9) Aquatrol series 740 (steam) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 398 2023 f. Soft Seated 1) Bray 2) DeZurik 3) Keystone 4) Milwaukee g. Swing Check 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Powell 6) Rockwell Nordstrom 7) Stockham 8) Walworth h. Globe Valves 1) Crane 2) Grinnell 3) Hammond (I.B. Series only) 4) Milwaukee 5) Nordstrom 6) Powell i. Plug Valves (Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. 3) Nordstrom 4) Walworth j. Plug Valves (Non Lubricated Type) 1) DeZurik 2) Homestead 3) Milliken Valve Company, Inc. k. Solenoid Valves 1) ASCO l. Combination Valves 1) Victaulic m. Gate Valves 1) Crane NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 399 2023 57. Variable Air Volume Variable Air Volume Boxes shall have pressure independent control. All VAVs shall have a local disconnect switch. All VAVs shall be marked with individual equipment ID’s. This shall be specified on design drawings as well. Design drawings equipment schedule for VAVs shall be specific and general based on size. Supply boxes with reheat coils shall have an access door upstream and downstream of the coil for cleaning purposes. Supply boxes without reheat coils shall have an access door for the damper. Exhaust boxes shall have an access door upstream of the cross flow sensors for cleaning purposes. There shall be a maximum of 4 rooms per one VAV. These rooms shall be typical spaces and not corner spaces. Corner rooms shall have their own VAV box. Access doors shall not be hinged. VAV boxes that include reheat coils shall have temperature and pressure gauges. These can be combination temp/pressure gauge. The reheat coil trim shall also include vents and drains. Coils shall not have bypasses for flushing purposes. Provide ball valve type hose bibs upstream of the supply trim and downstream of return trim so that the contractor can install flex hoses to circulate and then remove so that there is no possibility of leaving a bypass open. The hose bibs can also be used for high point vents or drains. The hot water return piping shall have an isolation ball valve downstream of the balancing valve. Inlets to VAV at medium pressure ductwork shall not exceed 0.2” ESP or 2,000 FPM. Removable velocity wing sensor shall be provided if Anemostat is selected as the VAV box. Approved Manufacturers Non Critical Applications: a. Anemostat b. Nailor Industries c. Titus Approved Manufacturers Critical Applications: a. LCS 58. Variable Frequency Drives See Motor Controllers Variable Speed (VFD) subsection NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 400 2023 59. Variable Refrigerant Flow System (VRF) If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Outdoor Unit (Condenser) All variable refrigerant flow system (VRF) components shall be of the same manufacturer. The unit shall be factory assembled and prewired with all necessary electronic and refrigerant controls. The unit internal controls shall interface with the base building, building management system (BACnet, Modbus, etc.). All refrigerant and gas lines shall be insulated with Armorflex (1/2” or more). The unit shall be provided with a minimum of the following safety devices; high pressure switch, control circuit fuses, crankcase heaters, fusible plug, overload relay, inverter overload protector, thermal compressor protectors, thermal fan motor protectors, overcurrent protection for the inverter and anti short cycling timers. In the event of power failure the system shall store all settings and programs so reprogramming is not required. The system shall automatically restart operation after power failure. The compressor shall be hermetic digital scroll and the inverter shall permit a capacity control range from to . The outdoor fan shall be direct drive variable speed propeller type and configured for vertical discharge airflow. The fan motor shall have inherent protection and have permanently lubricated bearings. The condenser coil shall be copper tubes with mechanically bonded aluminum fins and aluminum end casings. The coils shall be applied with a corrosion resistant coating. Ensure refrigerant piping is brazed (do not use flux when brazing copper to copper refrigerant piping) Branch Controller The branch controller shall have sufficient number of ports as required for connection to zoned equipment. The unit shall contain piping, valves, and controls to divert refrigerant controlling each port to operate in either a heating or cooling mode. Units shall be completely factory assembled, internally piped and wired. Branch controllers shall have factory installed control boards that interface with the VRF equipment controls and shall perform all functions to effectively and efficiently control simultaneous heat and cooling. Isolation valves shall be field supplied and installed for ease of service to the branch controller without evacuating the entire system refrigerant charge. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 401 2023 Indoor Fan Coil Units The indoor fan coil unit shall be factory assembled, wired and run tested. Contained within the unit shall be all factory wiring, piping, electronic modulating linear expansion device, control circuit board and fan motor. The indoor fan coil unit shall have an auto restart function. Indoor fan coil unit and refrigerant pipes shall be charged with dehydrated air before shipment from the factory. The indoor fan coil unit shall be direct drive type with a minimum of three (3) fan speeds. The fan motor shall be ECM type. A condensate drain and pan shall be installed under the coil with leak detection device (in instances where condensate cannot be piped to drain). Provide a factory installed / wired condensate pump with integral check valve. Provide wall mounted programmable thermostat for each indoor fan coil unit (unless multiple units will be grouped and control to one (1) thermostat). Ensure all indoor fan coil unit DIP switches (local at each unit) are set to monitor room/space temperature (ceiling mounted units typically set to read return air temperature). Approved Manufacturers a. Daikin b. Mitsubishi c. Toshiba d. LG 60. Vibration Isolators Vibration isolators are to be installed on all rotating equipment including fans, air handling units, chillers, cooling towers, pumps, etc. Piping shall have braided vibration isolators unless piping is isolated with spring type isolators within a minimum of 50 feet of pump. All piping in a mechanical plant shall be isolated with spring type isolators. Approved Manufacturers: a. Mason Industries b. Amber Booth c. Kinnetics Noise Control, Inc. d. Vibration Eliminator Co. e. Vibration Mountings and Controls 61. Water Filtration Sand filtration shall be installed on Condenser Water. All other systems shall have pot feeders. Sand filters shall have backwash capabilities. All water filtration to be capable of filtering a minimum of of total flow. Pot feeders to have 5 micron filtration with a coupon rack. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 402 2023 All water filtration shall be reviewed and approved by Facilities Operations. Approved Manufacturers: a. Ameri Water b. Chemworks c. Diamond Water Systems, Inc. 62. Waterproof Sleeves Approved Manufacturers: a. Link Seal b. Zurn 63. Water Source Heat Pumps Approved Manufacturers: a. AAON b. Carrier c. Mitsubishi 64. Water Treatment/Cleaning Open loop systems shall have an automatic chemical feed with integral controls. Closed loop systems shall have a manual bypass feeder system. All chemicals are to be recommended by the water treatment system manufacturer. Chemicals shall be compatible with the piping system and components. A water analysis shall be performed to determine quality of water. Any new equipment or piping needs to be pre cleaned to remove the oils of manufacture, which can be accomplished with an alkaline phosphate cleaner supplied by the water treatment supplier. It is necessary that all valves and fan coil units in the system be opened to flow during the cleaning process. The cleaning process shall be as follows: • All coils shall be bypassed for the first two hours of a flush and then opened to flow through the coils for the rest of the flush. • System shall be filled with fresh water and then circulated with all process and booster pumps running. • Alkaline phosphate detergent shall be added following the manufacturer’s instructions concerning the correct dosage. It may be necessary to add de foamer in some instances. • System shall be circulated for a minimum of four hours, and hourly flushed all low point drains to remove any suspended solids that may have been displaced. • Upon completion of the cleaning, system shall be drained and refilled with fresh water. Fresh water shall be circulated for 20 minutes and then bled heavily until the water is clear and free of foam. Flushing shall continue until the ortho phosphate level is within 1 PPM of that of the city water and the conductivity is close to that of the make up water. If the flushing occurs over an extended period in time (more than 24 hours), the flush water should be treated water. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 403 2023 • The system shall be immediately sterilized by maintaining a minimum of 1 PPM as free halogen for one hour and then treated to passivate the clean metallurgies. Systems containing copper should be treated with azole levels of 20 PPM as a minimum. Molybdenum should be used to passivate mild steel piping by achieving a minimum of 50 PPM. The recommended inhibitor levels must be maintained for 24 hours. Systems that are having piping added that cannot be isolated for alkaline phosphate cleaning must have a surfactant added for 48 hours. Systems that are having galvanized towers added must undergo a white rust passivation step for the first 90 days of operation. Flushing and cleaning is allowed through new construction house pumps. Flushing and cleaning is not allowed through existing house pumps. It shall be the responsibility of the flushing and cleaning contractor to provide a pump sized properly for the system to be flushed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Contact Facilities Operations for current campus vendor. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines MECHANICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 404 2023 G. Cost saving Alternatives This section provides cost saving alternatives for certain components of a project. The RED+F PM will advise the A/E Design Team if this section shall be used on their project. When so stipulated, the A/E Team shall follow the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines except the items below will be utilized for all affected components. There may be risks associated with using such items, including the need to repair or replace them more often, but it has been determined they are within acceptable range for use on certain NYU Langone Health projects. # Item Type of Build Out Science / Clinical (Article 28) Leased Science / FGP (Non Article 28) Admin / Office 1 Remove low pressure duct leakage testing. 2 Remove requirement for each coil to have a freeze stat in multiple coil units and only provide one long freezestat in all non Article 28 spaces. 3 Allow triple duty valves in off site locations. 4 Change pipe labeling from every 5 feet in concealed and 10 feet in unconcealed to 10 feet concealed and 20 feet unconcealed. 5 Change valve tags from metal to printed plastic in off site locations only. END OF MECHANICAL SUBSECTION NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 405 2023 3. ELECTRICAL A. Codes, Regulations and Design Standards. I. The installation will comply with applicable provisions of the New York State Building Code and New York City Electrical Code, Department of Health (DOH) standards, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) standards and all other applicable Codes. B. Design Criteria I. All connections to be done with double hole lugs (long barrel) and utilize compression type copper connectors. If this is not possible, the design scheme shall be discussed and approved by Facilities Operations. II. Emergency Power a. Emergency Power shall be provided per NFPA Standards, Joint Commission Standards, CMS Standards and New York City Electrical Code requirements. Emergency power to be reviewed with Facilities Operations prior to design. III. Design criteria for sizing power risers and (connected load) electric panels a. Administration/Office: 5.0 W/sq.ft. b. Clinical Office/Exam: 5.0 W/sq.ft. c. Storage: 1.5 W/sq.ft. d. Laboratories (Basic Research): 50 W/sq.ft. e. Support Areas: 12.5 W/sq.ft. f. Technology Rooms: 50 W/sq.ft. g. Procedure Rooms: 30 W/sq.ft. h. Specialty Rooms: 3 W/sq.ft. i. Offices: 6 W/sq.ft. j. Seminar and Classrooms: 4 W/sq.ft. k. Lobby: 6 W/sq.ft. l. Mechanical Rooms: 2.5 W/sq.ft. (Lighting and Small Power) m. Lounge/Waiting Area: 4 W/sq.ft. n. Café/Cafeteria: 15 W/sq.ft. o. Kitchen: 20 W/sq.ft. IV. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 406 2023 b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. excess attic stock shall be provided for integrated, architectural LED fixtures (i.e. fixtures that need to be replaced entirely after failure). V. Distribution a. All power loads, such as elevators, motor control centers, etc., shall operate at 480/277 volts and shall be connected to distribution switchboards with single or multiple conduit and cable feeders. b. Unless serving specialty equipment/lighting, receptacles as well as fluorescent and incandescent lighting shall be wired to 120 or 277 volt circuits. c. All conduits shall be run concealed in finished areas and exposed in Machine Rooms and Electrical Rooms. d. All lighting circuits shall emanate from lighting panels and power circuits from power panels. Lighting and Power circuits shall not be mixed in the same panel. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 407 2023 C. Electrical Naming Convention COORDINATE NOMENCLATURE WITH NYU LANGONE ELECTRICAL SYSTEMS MANAGER PRIOR TO LABELING OR RE LABELING ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT DESIGNATIONS. I. Generator Panel Naming Scheme Example: PPH G4 HCC CE1 PPH G4 HCC CE1Panel #LocationN,S,E,WA,B,C,DFloor LevelBuilding NameEB Energy BuildingSB Science BuildingKP Kimmel PavilionTH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care CenterSKB Skirball660 660 1st AveGBH Greenberg HallSML SmilowMIL MilhauserGenerator PlantG0 Reserved for Future UseG1 Kimmel PavilionG2 SkirballG3 Science BuildingG4 HCCG5 SmilowG6 Energy BuildingG7 660G8 GBHG9 Outpatient Surgical CenterG10 VZ 30th StreetPanel TypeDPH Distribution Panelboard480V / 277VPPH Power Panel480V / 277VLPH Lighting Panel480V / 277VLP Lighting Panel120V / 208VPP Power Panel120V / 208VRP Receptacle Panel120V / 208V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 408 2023 II. Normal Power Panel Naming Scheme Example: SS PES HCC CE1 SS PES HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery Primary Electric Service Normal Panel Type SSH Service Switchboard 460V / 265V DPH Distribution Panelboard 460V / 265V LPH Lighting Panel 460V / 265V PPH Power Panel 460V / 265V SS Service Switchboard 120V / 208V DP Distribution Panelboard 120V / 208V LP Lighting Panel 120V / 208V PP Power Panel 120V / 208V RP Receptacle Panel 120V / 208V BD Bus Duct DESS Double Ended Substation NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 409 2023 III. UPS Naming Scheme Example: TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B1 TPP 2 G5 61 SML M B 1 Panel # System A or B Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street UPS System Number 1 HCC Cellar 2 Smilow Ground Floor Telephone Switch Room 3 Tisch Ground Floor MUX Room 4 Tisch Ground Floor Communications Room 5 Energy Building 6 Kimmel Pavilion 7 South TER/DR 8 Science Building UPS Panel Types TDP Technology Distribution Board 120/280V TPP Technology Power Panel 120/280V TDPH Technology Distribution Panel 480/277V MDSH Medical Distribution Switchboard 480/277V MDPH Medical Distribution Panel 480/277V NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 410 2023 IV. Emergency Panel Naming Scheme Example: LS PP G4 61 HCC CE1 LS PP G4 61 HCC C E 1 Panel # Location N,S,E,W A,B,C,D Floor Level Building Name EB Energy Building SB Science Building KP Kimmel Pavilion TH Tisch Hospital MSB Medical Science Building HCC Health Care Center SKB Skirball 660 660 1st Ave GBH Greenberg Hall SML Smilow MIL Milhauser AMB Ambulatory Surgery ATS # Generator Plant G0 Reserved for Future Use G1 Kimmel Pavilion G2 Skirball G3 Science Building G4 HCC G5 Smilow G6 Energy Building G7 660 G8 GBH G9 Outpatient Surgical Center G10 VZ 30th Street Panel Type DPH Distribution Panel 480/277V PPH Power Panel 480/277V LPH Lighting Panel 480/277V LP Lighting Panel 120/208V PP Power Panel 120/208V RP Receptacle Panel 120/208V Panel System LS Emergency (Article 517 Life Safety) in Patient Care Buildings and Life Safety in Non Patient CR Patient Critical (Article 517) EM Standby (Includes Article 517 Required Mechanical Loads) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 411 2023 V. Bus Duct Naming Scheme Example: BD KP CR 1B2 BD KP CR 1 B 2 Panel # Location A,B,C,D Starting Floor Type N Normal CR Patient Critical EM Equipment LS Life Safety Building Name KP Kimmel Pavilion SB Science Building Bus Duct D. Various I. The following is a list of electrical gear that shall have heat runs/burn ins performed prior to turnover. All burn ins/heat runs shall be at rated load (full load). Infrared scanning shall be provided during the entire burn time. a. Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) 12 hour burn in b. Uninterruptible Power Supply Rack Type 30 minute burn in c. Automatic Transfer Switch (ATS) 4 Hour Burn In d. Static Transfer Switch (STS) 12 hour Burn In e. Generator 12 hours f. Power Conditioner 8 hour burn in II. Factory Witness Tests a. The following equipment shall be factory witness tested. See individual equipment subsections for further information regarding required tests. Maximum of two people (not including manufacturer). FWT shall include lodging, meals and travel. 1) Generators 2) Medium Voltage Transformers 3) Paralleling Gear 4) Uninterruptable Power Supply 5) Double Ended Substation 6) Power Conditioner 7) Static Transfer Switch 8) Medium Voltage Switches 9) Transformer 1,000 kVa or higher III. Proper wire color schemes shall be used for all panels. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 412 2023 IV. Isolated Ground (IG) receptacles are not allowed. If project team deems IG receptacles are necessary, engineer to discuss with Facilities Management. V. All emergency power shall be in conduit. VI. All boxes (splice, pull, etc.) shall be labelled with source and load. VII. Follow/refer to the “Dos and Don’ts” section for additional Engineering guidelines. VIII. All grounding to building steel shall be exothermically welded. E. Equipment 1. Automatic Transfer Switches Depending on application, ATS shall be bypass isolation type with load shedding capabilities. This shall be reviewed with Facilities Operations. A full monitoring package on all phases, KW, Voltage and Amperage shall be designed. All ATS connected to cogeneration shall be delayed transition type. Each ATS must include communication package that can communicated with sitewide CPMS. Each ATS must also allow for the acceptance of a permissive signal for retransfer to be received from the cogeneration plant. Engineer to add specifications testing section: • 4 hour full load burn in. One hour each for the following: Normal, Normal Bypass, Emergency, Emergency Bypass. i. At 30 minute intervals, record voltage, frequency, load current. ii. Provide resistive load bank and all necessary temporary cables and connections for full load test. • Simulate Power Failure Approved Manufacturers: a. Asco 2. Busway and Accessories Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric "Spectra Series" b. Siemens 3. Cable Pulling Lubricants Cable pulling lubricant shall not be used on isolated power systems. The following shall not be specified without approval from NYU Langone’s division of EH&S: • Chemicals that are known (IARC group 1) or probable (IARC group 2a) human carcinogens. • Hazardous substances listed in OSHA 1910 subpart Z. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 413 2023 • Products containing volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in excess of 50 grams/liter. • Products whose Safety Data Sheet (SDS) rates health, fire and/or reactivity as exceeding “1” on a scale of 0 to 4. • Products emitting strong odors. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Polywater Corporation Type "J" b. Electro Compound Company "Poly Ease" or "Y ER Ease" c. Ideal Industries "Wire Lube" 4. Cable Tray and Fittings Approved Manufacturers: a. Atlas b. Burndy c. Cooper B Line Systems d. M.P. Husky Corp. e. P W Industries f. Legrand 5. Clocks In procedure areas clocks shall be wireless, synchronized, digital, and power over Ethernet. Approved Manufacturers: a. Sapling 6. Dry type Transformers Factory testing shall be provided on medium voltage transformers and shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NETA Standard for Acceptance Testing Specifications for Electrical Power Equipment and Systems. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Hammond Power Solutions c. Jefferson Magnetek d. Siemens e. Rex Transformers f. ABB 7. Electric Heating Cable Systems Approved Manufacturers: a. Chromalox b. Raychem NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 414 2023 8. Electrical Conductors, Copper, 600 Volt or Less All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. American Insulated Wire b. General Cable/Cablec c. Prysmian d. Southwire 9. Electrical Metallic Tubing (EMT) All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Allied Tube & Conduit/Tyco b. Republic c. Robroy Industries d. Triangle e. Western f. Wheatland 10. Electronic Fluorescent Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. MagneTek c. Universal 11. Electronic Fluorescent Dimming Ballasts Approved Manufacturers: a. Advance b. Lutron c. Universal 12. Electronic Dimming System Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper 13. Enclosed Switches Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Siemens c. Square D NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 415 2023 14. Exit Signs Exit signs shall meet the NYC Energy Code wattage requirements Approved Manufacturers: a. Philips Caliber Series Edge Lit LED b. Encore 15. Fire Detection, Alarm and Communication See Fire Alarm Guidelines 16. Flexible Metal Conduit All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. AFC b. ALFLEX c. American Metal Molding d. Anaconda e. Cerro f. International Metal Hose 17. Flexible Metal Conduit Fittings All shall be UL Listed. Approved Manufacturers: a. Appleton b. Efcor c. Midwest d. OZ/Gedney e. Raco/Hubbell f. Steel City/Thomas & Betts 18. Fluorescent Lamps See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further design information. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric 3500°K. T 5 19. Fuses Approved Manufacturers: a. Ferraz Shawmut Amp Trap 2,000 with a fuse window b. Cooper Bussmann NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 416 2023 20. Generator If installing equipment on a roof, refer to Do’s and Don’ts section for requirements. Generators shall be provided with a generator monitoring system. Base building monitoring system is a Monico System. Factory testing shall be discussed with NYU Langone Facilities Management prior to completing specifications. Factory witness testing shall at a minimum meet NFPA 37 and NFPA 110 Standards. All new generators ordered for sites in NY, NJ and CT shall be EPA Tier 4. Approved Manufacturers: a. Caterpillar b. Cummins c. Kinsley Kohler 21. Heat Trace All outdoor piping containing fluid shall be heat traced. Heat trace shall be monitored by the building automation system. Heat trace shall turn on by main outdoor air temperature sensor. Alarm shall be sent to BMS when heat trace is to turn on but there is no current flow or heat trace monitoring panel shows there is an error. Heat trace shall not turn on via its own controller. Approved Manufacturers: a. Nelson b. Raychem c. Chromalox 22. High Intensity Discharge Lamps Not allowed. 23. LED Light Fixtures See Design Criteria lighting subsection at the beginning of the Electrical Design Guidelines for further information. LED Fixtures to be approved on a project to project basis. All LED fixtures to be 3500K. Chipset must be Phillips. Approved Manufacturers: a. General Electric b. Phillips (Tubes) c. RAB Lighting (Panels) 24. Lighting a. All lighting located outdoors, in mechanical, electrical, IT or other utility spaces, closets and storage spaces, stairwells, restrooms, and any space 16’ above the finish floor and higher shall be LED type and shall be by a NYSERDA and/or ConEd NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines ELECTRICAL Real Estate Development and Facilities 417 2023 rebate/incentive eligible manufacturer. All deviations must be reviewed on a case by case basis with Facilities Operations. b. All lamp sources shall be 3500K color temperature in non patient care spaces, except where a different temperature is requested by end users for clinical or technical reasons. Patient care areas will be evaluated on a case by case basis for color temperature and color rendering index. c. In spaces where linear tubes are used, they shall be LEDs where possible and T 5 with high efficiency electronic ballasts in areas where LEDs are not possible for above listed reasons. d. All other lamping should be LED or CFL. Incandescent lighting is acceptable in spaces with specialized requirements (ex. Research support spaces). e. Emergency lighting shall be connected to Life Safety Emergency Power. Battery packs shall only be utilized for emergency generator rooms, emergency switchgear rooms, fuel oil rooms, ATS rooms, and at least one emergency light with battery pack in a procedure area where anesthesia is being administered. f. Ultrasonic sensors are not allowed in/near animal holding, animal procedure areas, corridors outside holding/procedure areas, or adjacent spaces. Only infrared type sensors are allowed in these spaces. 25. Lighting Controls To be reviewed with Facilities. Lighting control networks shall reside on the MCIT network with interconnection to the BMS network. Coordinate with MCIT. Approved Manufacturers: a. Lutron b. Wattstopper c. Legrand 26. Line Voltage Switches, Wall Plates, and Coverplates Stainless steel finish plates shall be used in all patient areas. Hospital grade type shall be used in all areas of