to prioritize the emotional and behavioral health of chronically ill children and their families. The ABP agreed. It launched the Roadmap Project to develop behavioral health assessment resources and techniques for all American pediatricians who care for kids with chronic illness. Collaborate to Innovate In 2019, the ABP created a collaborative of nine top children’s hospitals to work on the Roadmap Project, including Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital with leadership from Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care, which is renowned for helping chronically ill children and their families cope with their emotions and build resilience. “The Roadmap Project is opening up a national conversation about how we can systematically address these gaps in care delivery,” explains Becky Lois, PhD, co-director of KiDS of NYU Integrated Behavioral Health program, part of Sala Institute. “There were already a lot of resources about checking in on the emotional health and well-being of specific patient populations, such as those with cystic fibrosis. The Roadmap initiative expands that work and says, ‘All of us in pediatrics need to take this on and address emotional health for every patient at every visit.’” Dr. Mary Pat Gallagher To help create the Roadmap, each of the nine hospital teams—made up of practitioners and family partners—tested the Roadmap’s proposed behavioral health approaches within a specific area of their institution. The Robert I. Grossman, MD, and Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Pediatric Diabetes Center, led by Mary Pat Gallagher, MD, was selected as Hassenfeld’s pilot site. “The Roadmap Project really dovetails with what we already do at the center with support from Sala, which is incorporating emotional and behavioral health in our daily work with children and families, in ways that families help design,’’ Dr. Gallagher explains. “The idea was that each hospital could learn from what the others did. Our goal was to test the effectiveness of techniques that could apply broadly across chronic illnesses—like depression screening or proactive education about the importance of emotional health—and then train all staff, from dietitians to nurses, in these techniques.” Small Changes Lead to Big Improvements For its part in the Roadmap Project, the Pediatric Diabetes Center created a new screening process for depression and anxiety. To build it out effectively, Dr. Gallagher says her team focused on “small tests of change” for the screening, meaning they would plan, implement, study, and then re-implement pieces of the process in real time. This allowed for continual improvement—a hallmark of the Roadmap Project. The first step in the new screening process asks a patient or family member four short questions. A high score suggests the likelihood of emotional distress and prompts a larger screening. The Pediatric Diabetes Center began its test by screening one family and asking for their feedback. As the screening process evolved, Dr. Gallagher decided that even if someone scored zero (indicating no anxiety or depression), she would still talk to them about emotional and behavioral health, thank them for anything they shared, and provide a handout with more resources. “We’re still iterating,” Dr. Gallagher notes of the center’s new, customizable screening process for anxiety and depression, “but the system is already well enough developed that we are able to offer it to all of our patients in the center. It’s already making a difference.” The Roadmap Launches Nationally Efforts like these across all nine participating children’s hospitals to test small changes in assessing children’s behavioral health yielded valuable results. The ABP and hospital collaborators used their findings to produce a suite of practical online educational resources that are now being adopted nationwide by pediatricians and other practitioners who work with chronically ill children and their families. The Roadmap website also offers resources to support families who identify as Black. “Roadmap Project participation by parents identifying as minorities helped inform our understanding of their unique experiences,” Dr. Lois notes. “They reinforced that when we think about how patients and their families come to us, and what their experiences have been with medical teams and hospital settings, we have a lot to do to create safe spaces for patients and families, in a culturally sensitive way.” Dr. Lois believes the Roadmap’s magic lies in its customizable approach to behavioral and emotional health assessments. She says, “We now have some of the tools we need as health care professionals to normalize mental health check-ins with our patients and families, in all their forms of diversity.” A second-year medical student in virtual reality (VR) goggles immerses himself in wraparound high-resolution graphics that make him feel as though he is standing inside a larger-than-life healthy lung. His classmates follow what he’s doing on a computer monitor. With the click of a controller, he gives the lung chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A collective gasp rises in the room, as students can see in vivid, almost living, detail the disease’s effects on the lung. “Swiss cheese,” the student murmurs. “Don’t smoke,” another says. “Virtual reality is used by doctors to plan surgeries at NYU Langone Health,” says Marc Triola ’98, Res. ’02, associate dean for educational informatics and founding director of the Institute for Innovations in Medical Education (IIME). “It’s used by researchers to visualize data and enables us to look inside the human body in ways that used to be physically impossible. We introduce our students to it early in their education because it will be such a big part of their world view.” Innovations in Technology and Information Systems Have Revolutionized Healthcare Delivery and Biomedical Research But U.S. medical schools, says Dr. Triola, have typically lagged behind in using these innovations to augment the essential—and unwavering—patient learning. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is leading the way forward through the work of the IIME, which applies technology and the science of education and informatics to transform teaching, learning, evaluation, and assessment. With 28 full-time staff and more than 30 affiliate faculty, the IIME is one of the largest medical education innovation groups in the country and represents a multidisciplinary team of faculty educators, education scientists, informaticians (data experts), and multimedia developers. In programs and initiatives across undergraduate and graduate medical education, and in close conjunction with the health system, the IIME aims to close the gap between how doctors practice medicine and how medical students and trainees learn in the classroom and clinical settings. The institute curates and develops education technology for the school, including using augmented and virtual reality to immerse students in highly experiential learning, apps such as in-the-moment evaluation tools and clinical resources for students and educators, and multimedia e-learning modules that supplement and enrich in-class learning. Dr. Marc M. Triola We’re leveraging all this data that we collect about our learners, about the curriculum, and about the healthcare system to inform our educational programs. It’s moved us away from education driven by anecdotes to education driven by an epidemiologic approach. “It’s never technology for technology’s sake,” says Crystal Mainiero, MPA, IIME’s executive director. “Technology in medical education is meant to support active, integrated, personalized learning. It’s always an enabler to [help students] do some really amazing things.” The institute, which grew out of the Division of Educational Informatics, also avidly collects and leverages a wide range of data and evidence to inform and improve the education experience, making use of the rich data already available across the health system. “We are a science-driven medical center. Gaining insight from data is a theme that has transformed our clinical mission and our research mission. Now we’re working to make sure it’s transforming our education mission,” says Dr. Triola, emphasizing that data does not replace human decision making but rather positions decision making to be more successful because it is more informed. New Insights Pinpoint New Opportunities Using data from a wide set of sources—including the learning management system, evaluation and assessment tools, simulation checklists, student information system, and electronic medical record, EPIC—IIME built an education data warehouse that enables educators to visualize and act nimbly on education-related data. “We’re leveraging all this data that we collect about our learners, about the curriculum, and about the healthcare system to inform our educational programs,” says Dr. Triola. “It makes perfect sense, but it’s not an approach that’s used by most medical schools.” The IIME recently received an award from the Association of American Medical Colleges’ Group on Information Resources for making “significant contributions to academic medicine information technology.” The data warehouse, combined with enterprise analytics, gives educators a deeper understanding—in real time—of what students are learning, how they are performing, what they will need in future practice, and what changes can be made today to better prepare them for that future. The same can be said for faculty members, who gain actionable insights, again in real time, into their performance and the effectiveness of their teaching and evaluating. “With the infrastructure and ability to collect, analyze, and summarize all of this data, it gives us the ability to create a continuous quality improvement approach to medical education,” says Dr. Triola. “It’s moved us away from education driven by anecdotes to education driven by an epidemiologic approach.” NYU Grossman School of Medicine will use such a data-driven approach—combined, importantly, with human input—to inform and improve the transition from undergraduate to graduate medical education (UME/GME). The school collects a vast array of data on its undergraduate medical students—on their strengths and weaknesses, educational goals and trajectory, assessments and competencies—but little of that information makes it across the UME/GME divide. Now, with a $1.8 million grant from the American Medical Association’s (AMA’s) Reimagining Residency initiative, five residency programs will have access to that data right after a student matches to that program. Each student will connect with a residency coach, and, together with the resident’s mentor from NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s undergraduate coaching/advising Violet Society Program, they will use the data at hand to create a road map ensuring curricular continuity and relevance, and, ultimately, enhancing readiness for practice. NYU Langone is uniquely positioned to develop and benefit from the five-year project, Transition to Residency Advantage, Dr. Triola notes, because a higher-than-average percentage of the graduates continue on through residency: 40 percent, compared with a national average of 24 percent. Active Learning through Technology Back in the classroom, the next student who wears the VR goggles becomes immersed in her selected organ, the pancreas. She first rotates a healthy 3D pancreas 360 degrees, then elects to view the pancreas with diabetes—to see the devastating effects of the chronic illness on the organ. The class is part of an emergency medicine clerkship designed to give students firsthand experience with the specialty. Elsewhere in the conference room, fellow second-year students in VR goggles are immersed in a simulation to save a baby having a seizure. The immersive nature of the VR technology enables each student to check the baby’s vitals, clear the airway, give oxygen, and select lifesaving IV medications. The simulation increases in difficulty by medically complicating the situation and by introducing the baby’s virtual mother and a series of cascading distractions. “The simulation allows students to put their knowledge and skills into practice and make ‘real-life’ decisions without compromising a real patient’s safety,” says Carol DerSarkissian, MD, Res. ’02, clinical assistant professor in the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Emergency Medicine. She developed the VR segment of the class with Gregory Dorsainville, MPS, IIME’s senior multimedia developer, after she took the Virtual Reality in Medical Education certification course he teaches for faculty. “This is active, experiential learning, as opposed to passive learning, and students will remember more because they are learning from experience,” says Dr. DerSarkissian. “That gives them a more solid memory and a deeper understanding of that clinical situation and of that disease state.” Novel technologies are driving profound advances in surgeries, research, and imaging. NYU Grossman School of Medicine is infusing technology into the curriculum both to ensure that students have a fluency with the tools of their future and to capitalize on what these technologies enable students to learn and do. This kind of enriched learning brings medical students deep inside a human body to experience systems, organs, and structures, as well as various states of disease and wellness, up close and remarkably intact. “The overall concept is that it’s difficult to visualize in one’s mind what these structures actually look like, where they’re positioned, and what they’re doing. Immersive 3D tech does that,” notes Dorsainville, who is the developer behind many of the learning experiences that integrate existing and emerging technologies at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. He narrates the immersive learning that is possible in a VR session: “Look at the heart. You can see different layers, the circulation, and the process of beating. You can see the nerves firing across all the muscles, which you can’t do with a cadaver. You can play with the values to manipulate how fast the heart is beating. There, that’s what it looks and sounds like at 75 beats per minute. Now speed it up, or slow it down.” Starting this fall, students will be using virtual and augmented reality, 3D cinematic renderings of CT and MRI scans, and a new collection of plastinations, which are human cadavers preserved with plastic resins. In its leadership role as an innovator in medical education, the school continues to seek out the optimal way to combine technology and patient-based learning to best prepare the next generation of physicians and scientists. “Conventional 2D clinical imaging—such as CT, MRI, and radiography—will be infused into the anatomy curriculum, so the students learn living human anatomy in the way they will be seeing it in the future,” explains Kira Melamud ’10, assistant professor of radiology. “Strategic use of advanced 3D rendering techniques will further enhance the students’ understanding of critical spatial relationships.” New technologies that are being developed and used across the school and health system—including the point-of-care ultrasound—are only as good as the problems they solve and the benefits they deliver to people. “Technology is the enabler, not the driver, of the human changes that we want to realize in our education and clinical systems,” says Dr. Triola. “We’re not casting around for something to do with iPhones because we have them. Rather, because we know we have to have certain conversations at the bedside, we might investigate how an iPhone could help.” Ruth M. Crowe ’86, PhD (GSAS ’86), associate professor of medicine and director of integrated clinical skills, has collaborated with IIME to develop apps that provide standardized, real-time feedback for OSCEs (Objective Structured Clinical Examinations) as well as for workplace-based assessments, such as oral presentations and patient handovers. “Technologic innovations such as the I-PASS app enable standardized assessments that can be measured and followed longitudinally,” says Dr. Crowe. “We’re gamifying around it: we can motivate learners to collect authentic clinical performance assessments in their electronic portfolio data with the realization that it can enhance their grades. This benefit drives behavior change in the form of practice and feedback, and leads to better patient outcomes.” She emphasizes the importance of collaboration with clinical teaching faculty, ensuring that the assessment tasks and technology support their teaching goals, enhance communication with learners, and do not require undue time or attention from learners or instructors. “The major lift is not in creating the tool itself,” she says. The hard part lies in getting buy-in for using the tool. IIME developed NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Educator Community to inspire and support faculty development in education innovations, including how to use data, novel technology, and e-learning modules to meet teaching and learning demands. In addition to holding regular workshops and providing resources to help faculty members remain current on the latest tools and techniques, the Educator Community holds an annual Medical Education Innovations and Scholarship Day to honor faculty who embrace technology and take it to the next level. Dr. Crowe’s goal is to support instructors and learners through change. “As we move toward competency-based medical education, these innovations can help sustain a major culture shift,” she says. Written by Deborah Schupack A day to connect and learn Register Join us for a one-day conference designed for patients, their families, and caregivers. World-renowned doctors, researchers, and panelists will present useful and pioneering information on the treatment and management of epilepsy and seizures. 8:30 am: Registration and Refreshments 9:10 am: Morning Keynotes 9:10 am – 9:55 am: New Drugs, Deliveries, and Biologics for Epilepsy: The Expanding Pipeline Jacqueline French, MD 9:55 am – 10:40 am: Memory and Epilepsy Jennifer Gelinas, MD, PhD Columbia University 10:50 am: Session A (Choose 1) Epilepsy and Employment Panel Anli Liu, MD Genetic Therapy Chengzu Long, PhD Dana Price, MD Parent Panel Peggy Guinnessey, MPH, CTRS 11:40 am: Lunch and Information Table Displays 12:25 pm: Session B (Choose 1) Rare Genetic Disorders: From Organizing to Curing Orrin Devinsky, MD Colleen Olson (DHPS Foundation) Lisa Manaster (CACNA1A Foundation) Nicole Johnson (FOXG1 Research Foundation) Michael Jasulavic (LouLou Foundation-CDKL5) Adults with Epilepsy: Navigating Family and Work Life Can Seizures Be Prevented? Josiane LaJoie, MD 1:20 pm: Session C (Choose 1) Dietary Therapies Parmpreet Dhillon, MD Maria Kaufer, RDN Common Misunderstandings in Epilepsy Care Cognitive Functioning in Children with Jennifer Rosenberg, PhD 2:15 pm: Afternoon Keynote The Future of Epilepsy Care: Opportunities and Challenges Supporting NYU Grossman Long Island School of Medicine Driving the Future of Medicine On June 5, 2023, our community rallied together to support full-tuition scholarships for the outstanding students of —the first medical school in the state focused on training primary care physicians. Together, we created opportunities for aspiring doctors to pursue their dreams and achieve a world-class education. Thank you to all who attended the event! View photos from the 2023 NYU Langone Long Island Golf Classic Chair: Shepard T. Poole Honorary Co-Chairs: Dean Gladys Ayala, MD and Joseph Greco, MD Committee: Dirk Anderson Brian P. Kerley, Esq. Glenn Lostritto Nicholas J. Rosato, Jr. Charles M. Strain, Esq. Clubhouse Sponsors: The Hallen Construction Co, Inc. Island Outreach Foundation – Michele and Dave Knapp Rafferty Holdings Steel Equities Fairway Sponsors: Kerley, Walsh, Matera & Cinquemani P.C. Lizardos Engineering Associates, PC Presidio-Cisco Support the NYU Long Island School of Medicine A Fabulous Evening in Honor of the GI Fellowship Class of 2022 Dr. Mark Pochapin & The Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology Cordially thank you for celebrating The NYU Division of Gastroenterology & Hepatology Fellowship Class of 2022. Honorees: Dr. Yongyan Cui, Dr. Saamia Faruqui, Dr. Valerie Gausman, Dr. Sarah Lopatin, Dr. Michael O’Donnell and Dr. Lindsey Sattler Give to Gastroenterology Fellowship Graduation 2022 FACES and the NYU Langone Comprehensive Epilepsy Center are enormously grateful for the overwhelming support of the FACES Gala 2023.  The evening was a celebration of the resilience and spirit of the FACES community – people with epilepsy, their families and friends, volunteers, physicians and scientists. We owe the success of this year’s gala to all of those who lent their support by attending, giving a contribution, taking a digital journal ad, donating or purchasing auction items, and volunteering. Over 600 people attended the event, and FACES raised over $5 million dollars! These funds will directly benefit a wide scope of pioneering research, provide unparalleled patient care, and support ancillary programs that help lessen the burden of epilepsy for patients and their families, including the Parent Network, the FACES Apartments, the Dr. Blanca Vazquez Summer Camp Scholarship, and the FACES College Scholarship. It also allows us to offer cost-free events such as Game Day, our Peace of Mind Lecture series, and the annual Epilepsy Conference. Thanks go out to the entire FACES community and all they do to move our mission forward. Celebrating Milestone Giving to Transform Health A Night Honoring Exceptional Generosity and Impact—in Brooklyn and Beyond Leaders and friends of NYU Langone Health reunited on Wednesday, November 1, for the 2023 Violet Ball, celebrating a remarkable $2 billion raised since the previous Violet Ball in November 2019—and nearly $200 million through the event itself. Nearly half of these funds were unrestricted, allowing the health system the flexibility to allocate resources where they are needed most—and reflecting the profound trust our supporters have in our institution and its ability to put philanthropic dollars to the best possible use. The event honored Jackie and Mike Bezos and the entire Bezos family, longtime visionary partners to NYU Langone. The Bezos family has provided consummate and strategic support over several decades for key initiatives to remove barriers to health and wellbeing and transform care for children, families, and entire communities. “What first brought Jackie and Mike to our doors was a powerful alignment with our central promise: to deliver one standard of outstanding care for everyone,” said Dean and CEO Robert I. Grossman, MD. “At the height of Covid and a very low point for our city and especially its poorest neighborhoods, they linked arms with us to effect lasting change.” With their most recent gift of $166 million in 2021, the Bezos family launched the Beyond Bridges initiative: a model for community-wide health improvement beginning in Sunset Park, Brooklyn, designed to scale to health systems across the nation. Through a network of clinical and community-based efforts built on the strengths of NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and some of Brooklyn’s most successful and engaged community-based organizations, Beyond Bridges seeks to bridge health disparities and address social determinants of health by more deeply embedding the health system in the communities that it serves. “Jackie and Mike care only about their impact,” said Ken Langone. “I have never met two people who want less of the spotlight on them. They are far too focused on shining light on others.” A video highlighted the unparalleled impact and promise of the Beyond Bridges initiative. The Bezos family’s story is an illuminating case study in the power of philanthropy to unite people, programs, and infrastructure to catalyze progress and transform health. Since NYU Langone merged with Lutheran Medical Center in 2016 to create NYU Langone Hospital—Brooklyn, the hospital has ascended to become one of the best and safest in the country, with an even lower mortality rate than NYU Langone’s flagship Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. Jackie and Mike took these efforts a step further, recognizing even greater potential in Brooklyn and an opportunity to realize true system- and community-wide change. “We set out to establish a new healthcare model that we hope will be replicated in communities across the country,” said Mike Bezos. “There is an enormous amount of work to be done, and NYU Langone Health is all in and paving the way.” NYU Langone supporters’ sweeping generosity in the past four years enabled NYU Langone not only to emerge resilient in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic, but also to climb higher, driving significant progress across its mission in patient care, research, and medical education. Today, the health system leads nationwide in quality and safety, including recognition as the top comprehensive academic medical center and ambulatory system for quality and safety by Vizient, Inc., with the highest grades across the board from The Leapfrog Group; both Vizient and Leapfrog are independent organizations who evaluate us using a wide range of performance metrics from across our enterprise. NYU Langone also continues to be recognized for its specialty care, with 10 specialties ranked in the top 10 nationally by A second video looked toward the future of NYU Langone Health. The Violet Ball was hosted once again at the iconic Metropolitan Museum of Art. Event proceeds will support the institution’s research endowment, sustaining long-term research growth and further propelling innovation in medicine. See how far we’ve come 212.404.3575 thevioletball@nyulangone.org Conditions We Treat at the Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program There are many conditions that can affect your baby before birth, and the medical team at NYU Langone’s has the skill and experience to provide the expert care you are looking for. The conditions we treat include the following. Twin Pregnancies twin–twin transfusion syndrome twin anemia–polycythemia sequence twin reversed arterial perfusion sequence intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) or demise of one twin mono-amniotic twins conjoined twins Respiratory Conditions congenital airway abnormalities , including congenital high airway obstruction syndrome congenital diaphragmatic hernia congenital pulmonary airway malformation (CPAM/CCAM) bronchopulmonary sequestration Cardiovascular Disorders heterotaxy syndrome arrhythmias intracardiac tumors Abdominal Wall Disorders gastroschisis omphalocele ectopia cordis bladder or cloacal exstrophy Intestinal Conditions dilated or echogenic bowel intestinal atresia, including duodenal atresia and jejunoileal atresia intra-abdominal calcifications anorectal malformations, including imperforate anus enteric duplication cyst other intra-abdominal cysts, including choledochal and ovarian Genitourinary Tract Disorders and Kidney Disease congenital kidney and urinary tract problems , including urinary tract dilation, multicystic dysplastic kidney, renal agenesis, obstructive uropathies. persistent cloaca, and ambiguous genitalia medical renal disease, including , cystic renal dysplasia, and polycystic kidney disease renal masses, including mesoblastic nephroma, neuroblastoma Wilms tumor Musculoskeletal Conditions clubfoot congenital hand deformities , including polydactyly, syndactyly, ectrodactyly, and clinodactyly achondroplasia and other skeletal dysplasias amniotic band syndrome Craniofacial and Neck Conditions cleft lip and cleft palate macroglossia or micrognathia lymphatic malformations (cystic hygroma) Nervous System Conditions open neural tube defect, including myelomeningocele closed neural tube defects ventriculomegaly and hydrocephalus agenesis of the corpus callosum holoprosencephaly microcephaly and macrocephaly Dandy Walker malformation and variants craniosynostosis intracranial hemorrhage or calcification Tumors vascular birthmarks , including hemangioma and vascular malformation cervical teratoma sacrococcygeal teratoma retinoblastoma and mesoblastic nephroma Congenital Fetal Infections cytomegalovirus toxoplasmosis parvovirus Our experts also treat fetal chromosome abnormalities or genetic syndrome, fetal metabolic disease, and pregnancy alloimmunization, including red blood cell or platelet. For more information or to make an appointment, please call Fetal Diagnosis & Treatment Program Specialists is staffed by experts in maternal–fetal medicine and a full array of pediatric specialists and subspecialists who are uniquely prepared to meet your baby’s medical needs. Clinical Genetics John G. Pappas, MD Maternal–Fetal Medicine and Obstetric Ultrasound Tracy Adams, DO Martin Chavez, MD Hye J. Heo, MD Wendy L. Kinzler, MD Nadia B. Kunzier, DO Shilpi Mehta-Lee, MD Genevieve B. Sicuranza, MD Sevan A. Vahanian, MD Lili S. Wei, MD Neonatology Sean M. Bailey, MD Pradeep N. Mally, MD Donna J. Better, MD Melissa A. Busovsky-McNeal, MD Anne J. Chun, MD Gillian L. Henry, MD Emina Hodzic, MD Alan M. Langsner, MD Achiau Ludomirsky, MD Matthew N. Martinez, MD Michael J. Martinez, MD James C. Nielsen, MD Colin K. Phoon, MD Rakesh Singh, MD Ranjini Srinivasan, MD Reina Tan, MD Pediatric Congenital Cardiothoracic Surgery Pediatric Nephrology Laura Malaga-Dieguez, MD, PhD Marissa Lipton, MD David H. Harter, MD Evelyn Teresa Hidalgo, MD Christina Sarris, MD Jeffrey H. Wisoff, MD Pediatric Otolaryngology Scott M. Rickert, MD Pediatric Plastic Surgery Roberto L. Flores, MD David A. Staffenberg, MD Pediatric Radiology Shailee V. Lala, MD Pediatric Surgery Jason C. Fisher, MD Keith A. Kuenzler, MD Sandra S. Tomita, MD Jun Tashiro, MD, MPH Pediatric Urology Grace S. Hyun, MD Ellen Shapiro, MD Viktor Flores, MD Join our supporters and help countless people lead independent lives after amputation surgery. Provide Specialized Care to People with Limb Loss NYU Langone Health’s Center for Amputation Reconstruction is committed to helping people with limb loss lead engaged and mobile lives. We work with patients to maximize their levels of movement and function after amputation, while offering supportive services that empower them to tackle the additional challenges posed by amputation. By fostering collaboration among surgeons, occupational therapists, prosthetists, and mental health professionals, we use a multidisciplinary approach to treat patients so they have the holistic support they need to flourish post-surgery. With Your Help, We Can Improve Lives Thanks to the generosity of the NYU Langone Giving community, our team is able to work closely with patients to understand their goals, use the most advanced surgical technologies, and comprehensively treat the complexities that accompany limb loss. Ensure Patients Thrive Post–Amputation Surgery Your gift supports the greatest needs of patients with COVID-19. We at NYU Langone Health continue to be deeply moved by the outpouring of support in the face of COVID-19. This incredible support continues to help our doctors, nurses, and other essential staff best care for New Yorkers and all the communities we serve. With your help, we have been able to fast-track life-saving ventilators to patients in intensive care, get masks to frontline workers, and accelerate a study that gives COVID-positive patients options now. Flexible funds to support our response to COVID-19 allow us to identify the greatest needs moment to moment and to quickly meet them. One hundred percent of your gift will go to fighting and ending this pandemic, including research, innovation, and patient care. A gift of any amount will make a very real difference—on our frontlines and behind the scenes. Support COVID-19 Research and Patient Care Orthopedics Care Advance breakthroughs in orthopedic research care. Ovarian and Gynecological Cancer Research and Care Help drive progress in research and patient care for ovarian and gynecological cancer. Pioneer cancer research and ensure customized care. Progress in Lung Cancer Research Drive innovation in lung cancer research and help people worldwide. Research, Education, and Care Drive breakthroughs in research, excellence in education, and lifesaving patient care. Help advance the health and wellbeing of children at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Tuition Free Scholarships Help provide full-tuition scholarships to all students enrolled in our MD degree program. William I. Spencer Fund for Head and Neck Cancer Advance lifesaving research for head and neck cancer. Your support will advance our innovative efforts to treat the most challenging neurological conditions while working toward a complete understanding of the human brain. The Brain Is Still a Mystery One billion people globally live with neurological diseases and disorders, ranging from chronic headaches to Parkinson’s disease—yet many of the brain’s inner workings are still beyond our understanding. With a steady decline in federal research dollars, investigators are having an even tougher time finding answers that could lead to less invasive therapies, reduced recovery times, and better quality of life. We have a breadth and depth of talent and commitment to innovation that provides the foundation for us to rank among the best in both fundamental research and clinical application of original discoveries. Richard W. Tsien, MD Director, Neuroscience Institute Our expertise places us No. 1 in neurology and neurosurgery programs nationally, according to the latest “Best Hospitals” rankings. With Your Help, We’re Uncovering Answers With strengths in all major subspecialties, our neurology and neurosurgery teams pioneer studies on the brain and the many medical conditions associated with it. Our experts are unique in their commitment to research at every level—from innovative clinical trials to pure laboratory investigations. Their work translates into the safest and most effective treatments available today, both in the clinic and in the operating room. Your support will help us deliver the best care and ensure we contribute significantly to the growing global body of knowledge in neurology and neurosurgery. Help Drive Advances in Neurology FACES (Finding a Cure for Epilepsy and Seizures) Help find a cure for epilepsy. Genitourinary Cancer Care Support the urologists, medical oncologists, and radiation oncologists who treat prostate, kidney, bladder, and testicular cancers. Hassenfeld Children’s Center for Cancer and Blood Disorder Drive advancement in research and care for pediatric cancer and blood disorders. Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital Provide crucial and comprehensive care for children and their families. Honor NYU Langone Nurses Give thanks to our heroes on the frontlines. KiDS of NYU Langone Help ensure that children and families receive the medical care and support they need. Medical School Scholarships Support the next generation of leaders in medicine. Mineola Cancer Center for Kids Help us continue to provide the best care possible for children throughout cancer diagnosis and treatment. Support New York State’s first medical school focused on primary care. Paying It Forward After surviving breast cancer, philanthropist and former United States ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago, Beatrice W. Welters wanted to “pay it forward” by educating women about the importance of early detection and treatment. Consequently, the Beatrice W. Welters Breast Health Outreach and Navigation Program at Perlmutter Cancer Center was created in 2016. A Critically Important Focus Our target populations include African-American/Black women, who are twice as likely to have aggressive types of breast cancer that are harder to treat, and Hispanic and Latinx women, for whom breast cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related death. The Welters Program educates women about breast cancer and the paramount importance of screening. Early screening can help identify cancer when it can be most effectively treated. The program also assists women in navigating the healthcare system through one-on-one guidance and direct interaction. Patient navigators, who are the key differentiators of program, go into communities to meet the women we seek to serve, where they live. The navigators play a pivotal role in supporting women—through one-to-one interaction—to negotiate the sometimes complex health care system. This unique approach supports women from screening through diagnosis to treatment, into, and through survivorship. Patient navigators identify women who could benefit from breast cancer screening through outreach and educational programs in community venues that women routinely visit, such as beauty salons, churches, and mosques. Growth of the program includes expanding this program into new communities by adding additional navigators, getting more women into clinical trials, providing genetic counseling, and continuing to share our Welters Program experiences with other healthcare systems and providers seeking to address the issues of inequity of access and service for women of color. Support the Welters Program Celebrating the Sala Institute On November 12, our community came together to celebrate Sala Institute for Child and Family Centered Care and honor Jason C. Fisher, MD. As a champion for Sala’s culture of care, Dr. Fisher is profoundly committed to providing the very best surgical care to children and their families. On a night filled with hope and joy, we shared the story of a young family whose newborn daughter’s life was saved by Dr. Fisher and a team of experts at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital. Our most special thanks goes to Sala’s co-founders, Trudy Elbaum Gottesman and Robert W.