when a pre-screener examined medical charts without seeing patients, we increased enrollment in a trial by threefold in six months; patients enrolled before implementation of pre-screening were all non-Hispanic White, while patients enrolled subsequently were either non-Hispanic Black or Hispanic White. We also need to require mandatory implicit bias, anti-racism, and cultural humility training for all involved in clinical research. Applying ASCO-ACCC’s Just ASK training will be important, as we know that over two-thirds of patients of diverse populations are willing to go on trials when asked. It’s also critical we address barriers to trial participation, including transportation, loss of wages, and childcare, and ensure protocols are not overly restrictive. For genetic testing, as the cost comes down, we need universal testing. We are embarking on a study with three locations in Brooklyn to offer genetic testing to Hispanic, Afro-Caribbean, and Chinese patients to understand patient uptake and provider feasibility of offering universal testing. We are very excited to activate this study. This is a culmination of all my population health research—we need to do a better job with both preventing and stratifying gynecologic cancers so we can reduce their burden and save lives. Bhavana Pothuri, MD, is a professor of obstetrics and gynecology, director of gynecologic oncology research, and medical director of the Clinical Trials Office at Perlmutter Cancer Center. Her research and clinical interests include next-generation tumor sequencing and precision medicine for ovarian and endometrial cancers. Advancing the Profession of Interventional Cardiology The Society for Cardiovascular Angiography and Interventions president discusses helping shape the subspecialty’s future. Psilocybin and Psychotherapy May Dramatically Reduce Alcohol Consumption Psychogenic Nonepileptic Seizures: Exploring Unmet Needs A specialist in functional neurological disorders calls for greater attention to little-understood condition. Defining Mental Health Strategies for Responding to COVID-19 As the pandemic entered its second year, NYU Langone Health researchers led in outlining responses to reduce psychiatric harms. Untangling Schizophrenia’s Ties to COVID-19 Mortality Unsettling finding associate the mental illness with nearly three times higher risk of death. More Online Game Playing Fuels Call for Addiction Awareness Internet games like Call of Duty and Pokémon are a massive global business, generating an estimated total revenue of $196 billion in 2022 . The continued growth of online gaming has revealed a considerable downside, however, with psychiatrists seeing an influx of patients presenting with symptoms of gaming addiction. While the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , released in 2013, listed “internet gaming disorder,” it did so not as a formal disorder but as a condition that could be considered for official inclusion pending more clinical research and experience. In the decade since, interest in identifying diagnostic and treatment strategies has risen significantly. Anil Thomas, MD , clinical associate professor of psychiatry and director of NYU Grossman School of Medicine’s Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship , discusses the emerging diagnosis of internet gaming disorder, growing clinical interest, and the opportunity to advance research and awareness. Drivers of Addiction How big of a problem is gaming addiction? Dr. Thomas: It is a growing problem. Multiple factors have contributed to a rapid increase in recent years. Cell phones have made it possible to take gaming anywhere. Additionally, with people sheltered in their homes during COVID-19, the pandemic steepened that trajectory. In terms of when gaming should be considered a problem, it is when an individual is neglecting other components of life, like taking care of themselves and their daily activities. Playing all night, neglecting social interactions, not maintaining friendships or contacting family, having gaming interfere with other responsibilities like work—these are all suggestive of a problem. “All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important.” On a neurological level, while there are few studies, it holds true that gaming addiction follows the same pathways in the brain as alcohol, opiate use, or any behavior that is driven by a similar reward system. Who seems to be more susceptible to this kind of addiction? In general, we’re seeing more male than female patients: it’s about 56 to 44 percent. And there is a large cohort of gamers that are adolescents. Their executive function, their prefrontal cortexes, have not developed yet like an adult’s. So they may not be able to make the decision, “Hey, this is too much for me, let me back away from it or temper it.” At the same time, younger gamers might not have access to the money needed to continue playing. So there is a balance between older and younger players with addiction problems. Screening Strategies What happens when someone with symptoms of gaming addiction goes to a psychiatrist at NYU Langone? We have addiction psychiatrists who assess for gaming disorders and manage that if it arises. It is a simple question: Do you play video games? And if the answer is yes, then you tease it out and see if they are neglecting other parts of their life. Patients are usually at an extreme point in their addiction before they seek help. There is that denial because it looks so benign until you’ve lost hours and hours of your life and potentially your job or social connections. A proper assessment is vital. Symptoms could point to another comorbid condition: Do they have an anxiety issue or depressive issue that they’re compensating for with the gaming? In that sense, treating the underlying psychiatric diagnosis with say, an anxiolytic or antidepressant, can improve the gaming addiction. But the thing that really helps is cognitive behavioral therapy. It’s not abstinence, but rather a harm reduction strategy so that the individual can engage in other activities and regain a healthy balance. What advice do you have for other clinicians? I think all clinicians—especially outpatient clinicians, family practice physicians, psychiatrists, internists—when they see a new patient and are screening for some sort of addiction, they should drop a question about internet gaming just to see if this is another issue. All patients that come in with any sort of distress, whether it’s anxiety, depression, or any substance use issues, should be screened for a gaming disorder—it’s on the rise. That awareness is so important. Increasingly Addictive Games To what extent are game developers contributing to the problem by making their games more addictive? Actively. They have an incentive to get players to spend money and be more engaged. They don’t want to make it too hard to earn in-game rewards. At the same time, they don’t want to make it too boring so that players switch to another game. They want to hit that sweet spot that convinces the gamer to continue to play. That’s called the “flow,” which is the zone where the challenge matches the player’s skill level. Game developers are actively monitoring where that “flow” is so they can pull in gamers and keep them there—and then playing for 5 hours, 10 hours will feel like the blink of an eye, possibly at the expense of sleep, food, and everything else. How can psychiatrists be more actively involved in promoting awareness around the hazards of gaming addiction? I believe that, like all diseases and aliments, we need to be aware and acknowledge that it exists. We need to educate parents and colleagues on signs of unhealthy gaming behavior, and finally screen for gaming disorder if there are indications. Anil Thomas, MD, is a clinical associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry, director of the Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship, and associate director and senior psychiatrist in the Addictions Division at NYC Health + Hospitals/Bellevue. NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry Podcast NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry is a unique podcast by clinicians, for clinicians, that connects cutting-edge discoveries with practical takeaways that can help you improve your patients’ care today. In each episode, host , a clinical assistant professor and the coordinator of digital mental health, outcomes, and wellness in the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and a nationally recognized specialist in mental health illnesses including obsessive-compulsive disorder and anxiety, explores a unique topic with a guest expert who is pursuing the most critical and compelling questions at the cutting-edges of their research area. “It’s an honor to… help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Insights on Psychiatry is part a look at the future of where psychiatry is headed and part a practical guide to improving the treatment we provide today,” says Dr. Gallagher. “It’s an honor to converse with such fascinating group of peers about their research and to help to communicate the kinds of meaningful insights we can all use in this fast-moving profession.” Welcome from Our Leadership “It is with great pleasure that we welcome into our educational programming. This series hosted by Dr. Thea Gallagher, one of our communication leaders, features clinical thought leaders from across our department discussing their passionate work with patients and in their specific area of research. We view these discussions as a way of your being able to meet and greet our experts over a virtual cup of coffee.  We know you will find them to be lively, informative and enriching.” , Peter H. Schub Professor and Chair, and Lenard A. Adler, MD , Vice Chair for Education, Department of Psychiatry Listen Now Listen on Apple Podcasts Listen on Spotify Listen on Google Podcasts Listen on Overcast Listen on Amazon Music Recent Episodes SEASON 2, EPISODE 12: APRIL 15, 2024 For the final episode of Season 2, we’re joined by Dr. Samuele Cortese , Professor of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at the University of Southampton (UK) and Adjunct Full Professor at NYU Langone. Together we explore the intersection of pediatric ADHD and precision psychiatry, including the disorder’s genetic underpinnings and evolving treatment options. 00:00 Introduction 00:54 Dr. Cortese’s Research Journey 02:11 Global Perspectives and Challenges in ADHD Treatment 03:51 Advances in ADHD Diagnosis and Treatment 06:41 Role of Genetics in ADHD 09:33 Precision Treatment and Stratification 12:17 Treatment Adherence and Shared Decision-Making 23:55 Connection Between ADHD and Obesity 28:39 Non-Stimulant Alternatives and Future Directions in ADHD Treatment 32:16 Non-Pharmacological Treatments 37:28 Advice for Clinicians and Closing Thoughts Read full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 11: APRIL 09, 2024 Dr. Timothy Wilens is a Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Chief of the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital. His research interest include the relationship between ADHD, bipolar disorder, and substance use disorders; ADHD pharmacotherapy; and stimulant medication misuse. On this episode, Dr. Wilens discusses the importance of early diagnosis and intervention in ADHD, as well as its lifelong implications. He takes us through the evolution of ADHD treatment, from behavioral therapies to modern pharmacological interventions, including stimulant and non-stimulant medications, and the application of digital therapeutics. The conversation also touches on the stigma surrounding ADHD, the role of precision medicine, and the future of ADHD research. 02:50 Evolution of ADHD Treatment 04:43 Stigma and Misconceptions 12:18 Importance of Early Intervention 15:02 ADHD Symptoms and Treatment Approaches 30:02 Addressing Concerns About Stimulant Medications 35:50 Navigating the Complexities of ADHD Medication 41:22 Future of ADHD Research and Treatment 43:20 Conclusion SEASON 2, EPISODE 10: APRIL 02, 2024 Dr. Ira Glick is Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at Stanford University Medical Center, where he has served as director of the Schizophrenia Research Clinic. On this episode, he discusses his research journey, which began in the 1960s and followed a shift from psychoanalysis to biological psychiatry. He addresses the broken social safety net for schizophrenia patients, including the controversial topic of treating some patients against their will, as well as the challenges of medication adherence, and the stigma surrounding severe mental illness. 00:49 Evolution of Schizophrenia Treatment 04:34 Science Behind Schizophrenia Medications 07:39 Addressing the Public Health Challenges of Schizophrenia 11:15 Stigma and Misunderstanding of Severe Mental Illness 21:44 Innovative Treatment Approaches and the Future of Schizophrenia Care 31:36 Importance of Public Health Interventions and Political Will 35:45 Closing Remarks and Future Directions SEASON 2, EPISODE 9: MARCH 26, 2024 Dr. Christin Drake is Clinical Associate Professor and Vice Chair of Diversity and Equity in the Department of Psychiatry at NYU Grossman School of Medicine. On this episode, Dr. Drake discusses ongoing efforts to improve mental health equity, including by improving psychiatric services for underserved groups, gathering better data, and boosting diversity among health care providers. She also discusses the importance of integrating mental health care into perinatal services and challenges the conventional wisdom about stigma toward mental health care in the Black community. 00:55 Dr. Drake’s Vision for Equity in Mental Health Care 03:46 Addressing Racial Inequities in Psychiatry: A Critical Conversation 04:45 The Importance of Representation and Mentorship in Psychiatry 10:32 Building Foundations for Health Equity: Data and Systemic Change 22:16 Integrating Psychiatric Care into Perinatal Health 33:31 Rethinking Mental Health Stigma in the Black Community 38:08 Future Projects and Closing Thoughts See full transcript SEASON 2, EPISODE 8: MARCH 19, 2024 Dr. John Krystal is Chair of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine. He is best known for leading the discovery of the rapid antidepressant effects of ketamine, which paved the way for the first major new antidepressant drug in decades. Here, Dr. Krystal talks about what we’ve learned in the five years since esketamine nasal spray was approved by the FDA, including efforts to predict treatment response, dosage and frequency, safety, and long-term impact. He also discusses advances in our understanding of alcohol use disorder and weighs in on the search for psychiatric biomarkers. 01:01 Dr. Krystal’s Research Journey 03:32 What We’ve Learned Since Esketamine’s FDA Approval 05:59 Avoiding Misuse 08:11 Optimizing Dosage 16:25 Predicting Treatment Outcomes 24:17 Ketamine vs. Psychedelics 25:48 Advances in the Treatment of Alcohol Use Disorder 32:33 Precision Psychiatry and Personalized Treatment Approaches 39:49 Psychiatric Biomarkers 41:03 The Future of Psychiatric Research and Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 7: MARCH 12, 2024 Dr. Robert Findling is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry at the Virginia Commonwealth University School of Medicine. Here he discusses recent advances in pediatric mental health, including his own research on aggression and schizophrenia in young people. Dr. Findling also shares his thoughts on the crisis of teen suicide, the lingering impact of COVID-19 on children’s mental health, and the need for early and collaborative interventions. 00:46 Clinical and Research Journey 02:56 Aggression with impulsivity and reactivity (AIR) 06:48 Precision Pediatric Psychiatry 15:34 Schizophrenia 20:31 What Kids Need to Thrive 23:10 Teen Suicide 25:09 Role of Schools and Primary Care 30:58 Loneliness Epidemic Among Children 32:32 Improving Access to Pediatric Mental Health Care 40:00 Bipolar Disorder 43:24 Future Research and Hope for Young Patients 45:11 Conclusion: Importance of Early Intervention SEASON 2, EPISODE 6: MARCH 05, 2024 Dr. Charles Nemeroff is Chair of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the University of Texas-Austin’s Dell Medical School. He is also co-director of the Center for Psychedelic Research and Therapy, and director of the Institute for Early Life Adversity Research. His research is focused on the pathophysiology of mood and anxiety disorders with a focus on the role of child abuse and neglect as a major risk factor. 00:52 Dr. Nemeroff’s Research Journey 01:55 Childhood Maltreatment as Risk Factor 04:53 Advances and Challenges in Precision Psychiatry 07:33 Psychedelic Medicine (incl. blinding issues and potential adverse events) 20:50 How Psychedelics Disrupt the “Circle of Hell” 30:00 Psilocybin as Potential Treatment for Anorexia Nervosa 38:32 Screening for Childhood Maltreatment 41:30 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 44:14 Focused Ultrasound 46:32 Prescribing MAOIs 49:34 Conclusion Read full transcript. SEASON 2, EPISODE 5: FEBRUARY 27, 2024 Empathy (with Helen Riess, MD) Dr. Helen Riess is Associate Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Harvard Medical School and Director of Empathy Research and Training in the Psychotherapy Research Group at Massachusetts General Hospital. She is also Founder and Chief Executive Officer at Empathetics , a company that provides science-based empathy and interpersonal skills training for healthcare professionals. Her research focuses on improving empathy and relational skills in physicians. 01:14 Defining Empathy 03:38 Empathy and Burnout 05:00 Care for the Caregiver 07:52 Exquisite Empathy and Burnout 09:18 Building Empathy and Avoiding Overburden 10:45 Developing Boundaries in Clinical Practice 11:45 Training and Teaching Empathy 13:42 Model for Recognizing Emotion in Others 15:11 Becoming Emotion Detectives 19:31 Leadership’s Role in Creating Supportive Workplaces 23:22 Benefits of Empathy Training 29:07 Technology and Empathy Training 34:18 Research on MDMA-Assisted Psychotherapy 37:43 Building Empathy and Compassion 40:07 Taking Small Steps Towards Empathy 42:32 Resources for Building Empathy 43:28 Future of Empathy Training The Empathy Effect (Dr. Riess’s book) The Power of Empathy (TEDx Talk) SEASON 2, EPISODE 4: FEBRUARY 20, 2024 Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (with Christopher Pittenger, MD, PhD) Dr. Christopher Pittenger is a Professor of Psychiatry at the Yale School of Medicine and Director of the Yale OCD Research Clinic . In this episode, he discusses the neurobiology, symptomology, and treatment of Obsessive-Compulsive Disorder (OCD), including potential new treatments such as psychedelics, neurofeedback, glutamate modulators, and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). 00:41 Why is OCD Underdiagnosed? 02:19 Impact of OCD on Individuals 03:40 Taboo Nature of OCD Thoughts 06:10 Biomarkers 08:06 Neurobiology 14:20 Serotonin 16:48 Heterogeneity of OCD 24:00 Glutamate Modulators 29:33 Ketamine 33:13 Psilocybin 38:23 Neurofeedback 44:01 Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) 47:22 Relationship Between Depression and OCD 50:24 Future of OCD Treatment SEASON 2, EPISODE 3: FEBRUARY 13, 2024 Meditation (with Richard Davidson, PhD) Dr. Richard Davidson is the William James and Vilas Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry at the University of Wisconsin–Madison and Founder & Director of the Center for Healthy Minds .  In this episode, he discusses the current state of research on mindfulness and meditation as mental health interventions. 02:15 Focus areas in current research 04:37 Well-being as a universal intervention 06:21 Beyond mindfulness: other forms of meditation 07:24 Four pillars of well-being: awareness, connection, insight, and purpose 13:04 Healthy Minds Program and the impact of short daily meditation practices 17:05 Comparison of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR) and the Healthy Minds Program, focusing on accessibility and time commitment 20:55 The potential for structural changes in the brain with meditation 26:24 Integrating mindfulness and meditation into clinical practice 28:06 Micro-supports for everyday well-being 33:27 Mindfulness and social connection 35:06 Future research directions, including the concept of a flourishing city SEASON 2, EPISODE 2: FEBRUARY 06, 2024 Dr. Ronald Kessler is the McNeil Family Professor of Health Care Policy at Harvard Medical School. His groundbreaking work on the social determinants of mental health, studied from an epidemiological perspective, has made him the most widely cited psychiatric researcher in the world.  In this wide-ranging conversation, he talks about precision psychiatry’s enormous potential and incremental development, delving into his own efforts to better identify at-risk patients and predict treatment efficacy. Dr. Kessler stresses the need for better data and bigger studies, and envisions a future of AI-supported clinicians. 00:53 Dr. Kessler’s Journey to Precision Psychiatry 02:45 The Importance of Data 04:14 Risk Factors and Treatment Optimization 10:42 Successes and Challenges 13:23 The Importance of Baseline Information 23:46 Machine Learning in Veterans Health 24:27 Determining Suicide Risk 25:35 Interventions and Cost-Effectiveness 26:16 Esketamine Trials and Response Prediction 27:07 Risk Models and Comparative Risk Models 27:15 Insomnia Treatment in Military Personnel 29:36 Cost-Benefit Analyses 35:45 AI in Medicine and Patient Response 42:21 Future of Precision Psychiatry 45:51 Closing Remarks SEASON 2, EPISODE 1: JANUARY 30, 2024 Dr. Petros Levounis is President of the American Psychiatric Association and a leader in addiction research. He joins host Thea Gallagher, PsyD, to talk about the latest in addiction medicine, the state of the opioid crisis, the growing problem of technology addiction, and the promise and risks of psychedelic medicine. He also shares his hopes for the future of psychiatry, including better integration of diagnoses, treatments, and outcomes for people with mental health disorders. 00:00 Introduction to NYU Langone Insights on Psychiatry 00:16 Dr. Levounis’s role and priorities as APA president 00:46 The State of Addiction Medicine 02:12 Neurobiology of Addiction 03:37 Interplay Between Mental Health and Addiction 06:03 Potential and Challenges of Psychedelic Medicine 08:37 Cannabis and Tech Addictions 10:11 Addressing the Opioid Crisis: Strategies and Solutions 15:28 Addressing Technological Addictions 28:55 The Future of Psychiatry: Goals and Aspirations 35:47 Conclusion and Final Thoughts Hox Genes Prove Crucial for Bone Maintenance & Repair Skeletal maintenance and healing rely heavily on stem cells to replace tissue lost to injury, disease, or wear and tear. Preserving this readiness requires skeletal stem cells to be continually renewed by cell division and kept in an immature, uncommitted state, the underlying mechanisms of which remain poorly understood. A subsequent differentiation process can then yield the bone tissue’s major cellular lineages. Skeletal stem cells become depleted with age, however, resulting in weaker bones that are more susceptible to fracture and less adept at efficient repair and regeneration . If directed to remain in greater numbers, conversely, they might provide a rich source of replacements for lost cells or a promising therapeutic target for rejuvenating aging bones. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing.” Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD new study published in the journal Development , a group of researchers at NYU Langone Health discovered that this maintenance role in adulthood may be spearheaded by the same family of Hox (or homeobox) genes that are better known for directing bone formation during embryonic development. A Newly Discovered Role in Adult Bone Maintenance In mice and humans, 39 Hox genes act as site-specific transcriptional factors to guide immature stem cells in different regions of the developing embryo. Their precise expression patterns act like zip codes to direct where heart muscle, nerve, bone, and other tissues should form, helping to establish the organism’s body plan. The new research suggests that the Hox genes’ previously unreported role later in life may help keep pools of periosteal stem and progenitor cells at the ready in the bone’s outer periosteum membrane. These available replacement cells can then help maintain healthy tissue and heal broken bones, again in a highly location-dependent manner. “Our data revealed a previously unknown function for Hox genes as essential location-specific regulators of stem cell maturity in adulthood, with short-term local increases in their expression able to drive healing,” says study senior author and orthopedic trauma surgeon In the adult skeleton, he and colleagues found, Hox genes are highly expressed by periosteal stem and progenitor cells but not by more mature cell types like osteoblasts. The research team showed that a deficiency in Hox genes spurs a decrease in the abundance and proliferation of skeletal stem cells, and an increase in their propensity to differentiate into more mature cell types. In a mix of stem and progenitor cells grown in culture, conversely, increasing the expression of the Hoxa10 gene reduced the cells’ tendency to differentiate and increased their capacity to self-renew. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive.” When they differentiate, skeletal stem cells give rise to progenitor cells with more limited lineage options and defined lifespans. Here too, the researchers found that overexpressing the gene yielded dramatic results: The transcription factor drove a reprogramming process that reverted a significant fraction of skeletal progenitor cells to a more primitive, self-renewing stem cell–like state. Location-Specific Hox Code Governs Bone Repair As in the embryonic development process, the reprogramming seemed to be highly location dependent. The reversion to more naive stem cells, they found, was restricted to adult stem cells from the same anatomical region where the corresponding Hox genes are expressed, like the gene’s preferential expression in the tibia and the Hoxa5 gene’s preferential expression in anterior ribs. In support of the group’s previous research demonstrating a loss of functional skeletal stem cells with age and an undermining of the skeleton’s regenerative capacity, the new study showed a coincident reduction in Hox expression with age. In mice, they discovered, temporarily overexpressing partially restored some of the age-related loss in the skeletal tissue’s ability to heal a tibia fracture. If borne out by more research, clinicians might be able to reprogram the more prevalent progenitor cells in adult skeletal tissue and return them to a more primitive state. The newly converted cells, in turn, could help replenish declining skeletal stem cell populations and improve the bone-healing process in older or repair-compromised patients. “The therapeutic promise of adult stem cells as a source of bone-making cells in healing-compromised people is massive,” Dr. Leucht says. Philipp Leucht, MD, PhD, is the Raj-Sobti-Menon Associate Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, an associate professor of cell biology, and vice chair for research in the Department of Orthopedic Surgery. His research focuses on the molecular and cellular processes of bone healing. Providing Relief for Patients Struggling with Vulvar Conditions Vulvovaginal disorders, including vulvar pain, chronic vulvovaginal itching or irritation, and skin conditions such as lichen sclerosus and lichen simplex chronicus, occur frequently and are a major reason many women seek healthcare. About one-third of vulvovaginal disorders are gynecologic in nature, one-third are dermatologic, and the remaining are undiagnosed vulvovaginitis, says Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD , a general gynecologist and director of NYU Langone Health’s Center for Vulvar Health. “These conditions can be challenging and time-consuming to diagnose and treat. Patients often see multiple doctors before they receive a diagnosis and treatment plan.” “The Center for Vulvar Health provides comprehensive and thorough care in this often-overlooked area.” Gynecologists often receive limited training in the diagnosis and management of vulvar conditions, Dr. Podolsky says. These disorders can also be underrecognized by dermatologists , who may lack comfort with examination techniques and be unfamiliar with normal anatomic variations. Additionally, many of these conditions are not resolved in one or two visits, making them challenging to manage in a general gynecologic practice, Dr. Podolsky adds. Recognizing Vulvar Pain Vulvar pain, or vulvodynia, is a common condition seen at the Center for Vulvar Health. For years, patients with vulvar pain have dealt with uncertain diagnoses and little in the way of treatment, Dr. Podolsky says. “That’s starting to change—there’s more recognition of the problem now.” “Chronic vulvar pain is prevalent and has a significant impact on quality of life, including sexual function,” she adds. “It can be a very frustrating condition for the patient since the causes are multifactorial and they have usually been told nothing is wrong because their skin looks normal.” The pathophysiology of vulvar pain is difficult to determine and can be infectious, inflammatory, or neuropathic in nature, Dr. Podolsky says. A diagnosis requires careful listening to the patient’s symptoms, a focused physical examination, and attention to the common comorbidities (medical and sexual) with which vulvar pain can be associated. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments.” Possible treatment options include topical or oral medications, injections, physical therapy, lifestyle interventions, and surgical procedures. “It can be a long process untangling the causes and finding the right treatments,” Dr. Podolsky notes. New Treatments for Vaginal Infections Dr. Podolsky sees numerous patients with vulvovaginal symptoms caused by yeast or bacteria. About 75 percent of women in the United States develop a vaginal yeast infection, or candidiasis, during their lifetime. “While many of these conditions are easily treated and resolved, some patients have recurrent or treatment-resistant vulvovaginitis,” Dr. Podolsky says. “Now we have new tools in the arsenal, including Brexafemme (ibrexafungerp), the first new antifungal to be FDA-approved in over 20 years for recurrent yeast infections.” Vulvar Skin Conditions and Cancer The Center for Vulvar Health also treats several skin conditions that often affect the vulva, such as lichen sclerosus and lichen planus. Both are inflammatory autoimmune diseases that confer an increased risk for squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva. It is important for those affected to be on long-term treatment and have regular examinations to keep the disorder under control, prevent or treat symptoms, and lower the risk for developing cancer, Dr. Podolsky notes. She recommends that gynecologists and dermatologists examine the vulva carefully, empower patients to discuss complaints, “and make use of resources like our center.” Rebecca G. Podolsky, MD, is a general gynecologist and director of the Center for Vulvar Health. Her clinical focus is on the diagnosis and treatment of acute and chronic conditions that affect the vulva. She is also a North American Menopause Society–certified menopause practitioner. Expanding Support for Perinatal Mental Illness Perinatal mood and anxiety disorders are common, with roughly 50 percent of cases in pregnant women going undiagnosed. Of those who receive a diagnosis, only a fraction receive successful treatment. In addition to the considerable effects on maternal and infant morbidity and mortality , there is a large cost burden associated with these disorders, particularly perinatal depression and anxiety. To begin to close these gaps in diagnosis and treatment, the at NYU Grossman School of Medicine has launched a Perinatal Mental Health Program aiming to strengthen providers’ ability to identify and treat women who are experiencing anxiety, depression, mood disorders, or other mental health issues during the perinatal period. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments.” Olivia P. Myrick, MD “International guidelines recommend screening for mental health disorders including depression during the postpartum period. However, once the screening is completed, following up with appropriate clinical intervention often does not occur,” says Jessica M. Vernon, MD , director of the new program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Changing the Postpartum Trajectory Unfortunately, the limited availability of specialized mental health providers is a significant barrier to integrated healthcare in primary care settings and is especially problematic for pregnant women or those in the postpartum period. “Common barriers to accessing care include lack of physician availability and issues with insurance reimbursement,” says , director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. “Very few psychiatrists specialize in pregnant and postpartum women, and few obstetricians are trained to manage psychiatric issues.” Launched in 2021, NYU Langone’s program has already forged strong collaborative relationships with reproductive psychiatrists and overhauled outpatient workflows, including hiring a new psychiatry fellow to help women with more complex mental health needs and educating obstetric providers on improved screening and treatment initiation. In addition, the program has recruited a dedicated social worker to manage lower-risk patients. Through the screening process, the providers share referrals and support each other in providing evidence-based, personalized treatment. Forging Unique Relationships Additional barriers to mental healthcare in pregnancy include lack of reimbursement and lengthy wait times for psychiatrists. However, these limitation are mitigated through the unique patient–provider relationships within the obstetric care setting. There is a growing consensus that integrating mental health services into existing service settings, including primary care, is a promising means of increasing access to mental healthcare services; and changes in reimbursement policies can be effective in this regard. “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations,” explains Dr. Vernon. “We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” “The model is unique in that it is fully integrated, ensuring that patients will be screened appropriately and reimbursed for provider consultations. We want everyone to have access to the best-quality care regardless of financial status.” NYU Langone’s perinatal mental health team meets weekly to discuss high-risk patients to ensure they are managed appropriately. With evidence demonstrating the effectiveness of medication and therapy for many perinatal mood disorders, treatment primarily delivered by an obstetric team is optimal, and the direct costs are often reimbursed for patients who are already receiving concurrent prenatal care within the practice. Expanding the Project Nationally Today, many obstetrics and gynecology residents and clinicians lack sufficient awareness of mental illness during pregnancy, contributing to the many cases that go unrecognized. Dr. Myrick and Dr. Vernon plan to improve education by launching a series of lectures and by forming partnerships with key stakeholders, such as the National Curriculum in Reproductive Psychiatry , to disseminate these materials broadly. In the long term, they hope to develop a national curriculum for obstetrics and gynecology trainees, which will be formally published and made available to medical educators. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments,” says Dr. Myrick. “We need to improve access to education, especially for obstetrics and gynecology trainees.” “The team plans to validate and further refine the model in the coming months, with the potential for telemedicine to be used in the future for diagnosis and treatment.” Obstetrics, Gynecology Olivia P. Myrick, MD, is director of education for the