Executive Summary NYU Langone Hospital Long Island is submitting this Administrative Review CON application for the relocation of an existing Article 28 Extension Clinic, the NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Women’s Wellness Clinic currently located at 1 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, New York 11550 to the 7th floor of 175 Fulton Avenue, Hempstead, New York 11550. This relocation will co locate the Women’s Wellness Clinic with the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic. This relocation will enhance the patient experience for several medically underserved groups by providing immediate and easy access to multiple healthcare services for families in one convenient location. The Women’s Wellness Clinic will be located next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic, allowing women and their children to both be seen by clinicians in one building. The Women’s Wellness Clinic relocation next to the Hempstead Pediatrics Clinic on the same floor will improve access to care for patients and their children through enabling them to go to a single location for healthcare. It also enables them to book their and their children’s appointments on the same day through a joint appointment scheduling system, thereby reducing the number of trips required and time off from work and other commitments to attend appointments. The new Suite will have its independent access from the elevator lobby. The program will consist of 6 exam rooms, two of which are used intermittently for Ultrasound exams and share a toilet. Phlebotomy, a Non Stress Testing room and a social worker round out the patient facing program. The room sizes and amenities as well as support spaces are in line with FGI 2018 requirements for Outpatient Facilities. The project is designed to comply with all ADA requirements and the facility will be fully ADA accessible. Please note that the Dormitory Authority of the State of New York (DASNY) will conduct the architectural review of this application. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 1 (Revised 11/2019) Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 CON Forms Regarding Environmental issues Contents: Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 Environmental Assessment DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 2 (Revised 11/2019) Environmental Assessment Part I. The following questions help determine whether the project is "significant" from an environmental standpoint. Yes No 1.1 If this application involves establishment, will it involve more than a change of name or ownership only, or a transfer of stock or partnership or membership interests only, or the conversion of existing beds to the same or lesser number of a different level of care beds? 1.2 Does this plan involve construction and change land use or density? 1.3 Does this plan involve construction and have a permanent effect on the environment if temporary land use is involved? 1.4 Does this plan involve construction and require work related to the disposition of asbestos? Part II. If any question in Part I is answered “yes” the project may be significant, and Part II must be completed. If all questions in Part II are answered “no” it is likely that the project is not significant Yes No 2.1 Does the project involve physical alteration of ten acres or more? 2.2 If an expansion of an existing facility, is the area physically altered by the facility expanding by more than and is the total existing and proposed altered area ten acres or more? 2.3 Will the project involve use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater to ground or surface water in excess of 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.4 If an expansion of an existing facility, will use of ground or surface water or discharge of wastewater by the facility increase by more than and exceed 2,000,000 gallons per day? 2.5 Will the project involve parking for 1,000 vehicles or more? 2.6 If an expansion of an existing facility, will the project involve a or greater increase in parking spaces and will total parking exceed 1000 vehicles? 2.7 In a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project entail more than 100,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.8 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of 150,000 population or fewer, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 100,000 square feet? 2.9 In a city, town or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project entail more than 240,000 square feet of gross floor area? 2.10 If an expansion of an existing facility in a city, town, or village of more than 150,000 population, will the project expand existing floor space by more than so that gross floor area exceeds 240,000 square feet? 2.11 In a locality without any zoning regulation about height, will the project contain any structure exceeding 100 feet above the original ground area? 2.12 Is the project wholly or partially within an agricultural district certified pursuant to Agriculture and Markets Law Article 25, Section 303? 2.13 Will the project significantly affect drainage flow on adjacent sites? DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 3 (Revised 11/2019) 2.14 Will the project affect any threatened or endangered plants or animal species? 2.15 Will the project result in a major adverse effect on air quality? 2.16 Will the project have a major effect on visual character of the community or scenic views or vistas known to be important to the community? 2.17 Will the project result in major traffic problems or have a major effect on existing transportation systems? 2.18 Will the project regularly cause objectionable odors, noise, glare, vibration, or electrical disturbance as a result of the project's operation? 2.19 Will the project have any adverse impact on health or safety? 2.20 Will the project affect the existing community by directly causing a growth in permanent population of more than five percent over a one year period or have a major negative effect on the character of the community or neighborhood? 2.21 Is the project wholly or partially within, or is it contiguous to any facility or site listed on the National Register of Historic Places, or any historic building, structure, or site, or prehistoric site, that has been proposed by the Committee on the Registers for consideration by the New York State Board on Historic Preservation for recommendation to the State Historic Officer for nomination for inclusion in said National Register? 2.22 Will the project cause a beneficial or adverse effect on property listed on the National or State Register of Historic Places or on property which is determined to be eligible for listing on the State Register of Historic Places by the Commissioner of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation? 2.23 Is this project within the Coastal Zone as defined in Executive Law, Article 42? If Yes, please complete Part IV. Part III. Yes No 3.1 Are there any other state or local agencies involved in approval of the project? If so, fill in Contact Information to Question 3.1 below. Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 4 (Revised 11/2019) Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.2 Has any other agency made an environmental review of this project? If so, give name, and submit the SEQRA Summary of Findings with the application in the space provided below. Yes No Agency Name: Contact Name: Address: State and Zip Code: E Mail Address: Phone Number: 3.3 Is there a public controversy concerning environmental aspects of this project? If yes, briefly describe the controversy in the space below. Yes No Part IV. Storm and Flood Mitigation Definitions of FEMA Flood Zone Designations Flood zones are geographic areas that the FEMA has defined according to varying levels of flood risk. These zones are depicted on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) or Flood Hazard Boundary Map. Each zone reflects the severity or type of flooding in the area. Please use the FEMA Flood Designations scale below as a guide to answering all Part IV questions regardless of project location, flood and or evacuation zone. Yes No 4.1 Is the proposed site located in a flood plain? If Yes, indicate classification below and provide the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance). Moderate to Low Risk Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, flood insurance is available to all property owners and renters in these zones: B and X Area of moderate flood hazard, usually the area between the limits of the 100 year and 500 year floods. Are also used to designate base floodplains of lesser hazards, such as areas protected by levees from 100 year flood, or shallow flooding areas with average depths of less than one foot or drainage areas less than 1 square mile. DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 5 (Revised 11/2019) C and X Area of minimal flood hazard, usually depicted on FIRMs as above the 500 year flood level. High Risk Areas Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: A Areas with a annual chance of flooding and a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Because detailed analyses are not performed for such areas; no depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. AE The base floodplain where base flood elevations are provided. AE Zones are now used on new format FIRMs instead of A1 A30. A1 30 These are known as numbered A Zones (e.g., A7 or A14). This is the base floodplain where the FIRM shows a BFE (old format). AH Areas with a annual chance of shallow flooding, usually in the form of a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. AO River or stream flood hazard areas, and areas with a or greater chance of shallow flooding each year, usually in the form of sheet flow, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Average flood depths derived from detailed analyses are shown within these zones. AR Areas with a temporarily increased flood risk due to the building or restoration of a flood control system (such as a levee or a dam). Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements will apply, but rates will not exceed the rates for unnumbered A zones if the structure is built or restored in compliance with Zone AR floodplain management regulations. A99 Areas with a annual chance of flooding that will be protected by a Federal flood control system where construction has reached specified legal requirements. No depths or base flood elevations are shown within these zones. High Risk Coastal Area Yes No Zone Description In communities that participate in the NFIP, mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply to all these zones: Zone V Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. No base flood elevations are shown within these zones. VE, V1 30 Coastal areas with a or greater chance of flooding and an additional hazard associated with storm waves. These areas have a chance of flooding over the life of a 30 year mortgage. Base flood elevations derived from detailed analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones. Undetermined Risk Area Yes No Zone Description DOH 155 B Schedule LRA 4/Schedule 7 6 (Revised 11/2019) D Areas with possible but undetermined flood hazards. No flood hazard analysis has been conducted. Flood insurance rates are commensurate with the uncertainty of the flood risk. 4.2 Are you in a designated evacuation zone? If Yes, the Elevation Certificate (FEMA Flood Insurance) shall be submitted with the application. If yes which zone is the site located in? 4.3 Does this project reflect the post Hurricane Lee, and or Irene, and Superstorm Sandy mitigation standards? If Yes, which floodplain? 100 Year 500 Year The Elevation Certificate provides a way for a community to document compliance with the community’s floodplain management ordinance. https://www.fema.gov/media library data/1582295171786 6506170c5f54026f585e44e2fc94950d/FF086033_ElevCert_FormOnly_RE_11Feb2020.pdf DOH 155 B Schedule 6 cover (9/6/2022) Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission Contents: o Schedule 6 Architectural/Engineering Submission New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 1 (9/6/2022) Architectural Submission Requirements for Contingent Approval and Contingency Satisfaction Schedule applies to all projects with construction, including Articles 28 & 40, i.e., Hospitals, Diagnostic and Treatment Centers, Residential Health Care Facilities, and Hospices. Instructions • Provide Architectural/Engineering Narrative using the format below. • Provide Architect/Engineer Certification form: o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation for Projects That Will Be Self Certified. Self Certification Is Not an Option for Projects over $15 Million, or Projects Requiring a Waiver (PDF) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Proposed Construction or Renovation Projects to Be Reviewed by DOH or DASNY. (PDF) (Not to Be Submitted with Self Certification Projects) o Architect's Letter of Certification for Completed Projects (PDF) o Architect's or Engineer's Letter of Certification for Inspecting Existing Buildings (PDF) • Provide FEMA BFE Certificate. Applies only to Hospitals and Nursing Homes. o FEMA Elevation Certificate and Instructions.pdf • Provide Functional Space Program: A list that enumerates project spaces by floor indicating size by gross floor area and clear floor area for the patient and resident spaces. • For projects with imaging services, provide Physicist’s Letter of Certification and Physicist’s Report including drawings, details and supporting information at the design development phase. o Physicist's Letter of Certification (PDF) • Provide Architecture/Engineering Drawings in PDF format created from the original electronic files; scans from printed drawings will not be accepted. Drawing files less than 100 MB, and of the same trade, may be uploaded as one file. o NYSDOH and DASNY Electronic Drawing Submission Guidance for CON Reviews o DSG 1.0 Schematic Design & Design Development Submission Requirements • Refer to the Required Attachment Table below for the Schematic Design Submission requirements for Contingent Approval and the Design Development Submission requirements for Contingency Satisfaction. o Attachments must be labeled accordingly when uploading in NYSE CON. o Do not combine the Narrative, Architectural/Engineering Certification form and FEMA BFE Certificate into one document. o If submitted documents require revisions, provide an updated Schedule 6 with the revised information and date within the narrative. Architecture/Engineering Narrative Narrative shall include but not limited to the following information. Please address all items in the narrative including items located in the response column. Incomplete responses will not be accepted. Project Description Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Revised Schedule 6 submission date: Click to enter a date. Does this project amend or supersede prior CON approvals or a pending application? Not Applicable If so, what is the original CON number? Click here to enter text. Intent/Purpose: New location for existing Women’s Wellness Clinic Site Location: 175 Fulton Ave, Hempstead NY 11550 Brief description of current facility, including facility type: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 2 (9/6/2022) Women’s Wellness Outpatient clinic, 6 exam rooms Brief description of proposed facility: Women’s Wellness Outpatient clinic, 6 exam rooms Location of proposed project space(s) within the building. Note occupancy type for each occupied space. 7th Floor (top floor of building). Indicate if mixed occupancies, multiple occupancies and or separated occupancies. Describe the required smoke and fire separations between occupancies: Business Occupancies only, mixed tenants, top floor will be entirely Outpatient Facility by NYU once completed. 1hr Separation of Occupancies. If this is an existing facility, is it currently a licensed Article 28 facility? No Is the project space being converted from a non Article 28 space to an Article 28 space? No Relationship of spaces conforming with Article 28 space and non Article 28 space: New Article 28 space within currently vacant floor. Adjacent space is being filed separately as Article 28. Also adjacent is a shell space List exceptions to the NYSDOH referenced standards. If requesting an exception, note each on the Architecture/Engineering Certification form under item #3. Click here to enter text. Does the project involve heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical, water supply, and fire protection systems that involve modification or alteration of clinical space, services or equipment such as operating rooms, treatment, procedure rooms, and intensive care, cardiac care , other special care units (such as airborne infection isolation rooms and protective environment rooms), laboratories and special procedure rooms, patient or resident rooms and or other spaces used by residents of residential health care facilities on a daily basis? If so, please describe below. Click here to enter text. No Provide brief description of the existing building systems within the proposed space and overall building systems, including HVAC systems, electrical, plumbing, etc. HVAC: The existing space is served by a common AHU that also serves two (2) other floors. Existing 2 pipe fan coil units serve the perimeter. The AHU is the constant flow, chilled water unit with hot water preheat coils. Hot water is provided by a steam to hot water heat exchanger. Steam and chilled water are provided by the building chillers and gas boiler. Service from the AHU will be capped and perimeter fan coil units to be demolished. ELEC: The building is provided with a centralized electrical service room located outside the tenant space. The electrical service is powered from a secondary step down pad mounted transformer located the rear of the site. The existing 7th floor tenant space is powered from an existing 120/208V, 3Ø, 4W, 500A circuit breaker in the tenant distribution panel located in the base building electrical service room. There are (4) 120/208V, 3Ø, 4W, 42 pole 200A panels in the tenant 7th floor electrical closet along with a 600A CT and utility meter. The equipment is in poor condition and will be replaced with new during renovation of the floor. Temp/shell space lighting fixtures, exit signs and lighting controls are currently installed. There is no emergency generator power in the building. Emergency/egress lighting is currently provided thru battery packs. The existing space is currently shell space and will be renovated to meet the program requirements. PLUM: The existing domestic water service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 4” domestic water. The domestic water service consists of a 4” copper pipe with no fiberglass type insulation. It was observed that the existing domestic water service is equipped with a 4” back flow preventer and a 4” water meter. The existing water service includes a 2” bypass with water meter and a 2” backflow preventer. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 3 (9/6/2022) Currently, domestic hot water within the building is produced by a gas fired, modular boiler and storage tank, located in the basement. Currently the buildings sanitary and vent system where visible on the floor was observed to be hub and spigot cast iron pipe. There are four (4) soil/waste & vent stacks located throughout the floors perimeter. Each stack consists of a 4” hub and spigot soil/waste riser that goes up and down the building. In addition, each stack has a 2” hub and spigot vent stack that goes up and down the building. The buildings storm system consists of eight (8) dome type roof drains. Existing storm piping at the ceiling of the 7th floor were visible consisted of 4” hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. There are four (4) 4” storm risers which also consist of hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. Each riser collects storm drainage from two (2) existing roof drains. Each of the four (4) storm risers share the same column as the existing soil/vent stacks. Existing storm piping at the ceiling of the 7th floor were visible consisted of 4” hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. There are four (4) 4” storm risers which also consist of hub and spigot cast iron pipe and fittings. Each riser collects storm drainage from two (2) existing roof drains. Each of the four (4) storm risers share the same column as the existing soil/vent stacks. The existing natural gas service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 2” high pressure gas main within the basement. The gas main consists of a 2” black steel pipe and pressure regulators. It was observed that the existing gas service supplies three (3) existing gas meters. Meter #1) supplies the pilot for the existing steam boilers burner. Gas Meter #2 serves the boiler burner. Gas meter #3 service the existing restaurant tenant. SPRK: The existing fire service into the building consists of one (1) incoming 4” fire service. The fire service consists of a 4” iron pipe with fiberglass type insulation. The fire service includes a 4” meter and then increases from 4” to 8”. It was observed that the existing fire service was not equipped with a back flow preventer. The existing 8” fire service has an existing 8” swing style check valve. The existing fire service includes a 3” bypass. Currently the building is not fully sprinklered. An automatic sprinkler system exists only at the basement level, this is due to it being below grade and as required by the 1968 building code. The building is equipped with a fire standpipe system. The fire standpipe system consists of two (2) 4” fire standpipe rises each located within each of the existing stairs. The building includes stair A and B. At each of the fire standpipe risers at each floor includes a 2½” hose valve and 125 feet of 1½” fire hose in a cabinet. The existing building also includes an adjacent, open parking garage. The garage is protected via an existing 6” dry pipe, sprinkler alarm valve system, which is located within the building, at the basement level. Describe scope of work involved in building system upgrades and or replacements, HVAC systems, electrical, Sprinkler, etc. HVAC: One (1) new 50 ton rooftop RTU to be provided to serve the new Women’s Wellness clinic. The unit will comprise of a DX air cooled cooling coil, variable speed supply fan, variable speed return fan, MERV 14 filter in final position, and an airside economizer. The unit will provide a constant 55 degF supply air to the space. The space will be served by variable air volume boxes equipped with hospital grade sound attenuator and hot water reheat coils to maintain space at desired conditions. 2 way hot water control valves to be controlled by wall mounted thermostat. Hot water will be provided by one (1) new 500 MBH gas fired or electric boiler. The new Boiler will serve this space and adjacent space (future NYU Pediatric Wellness Clinic). One (1) new 3 ton wall mounted split air cooled system to serve the IDF room. The air cooled condensing unit to be located on the roof. The new refrigerant piping will be extended from the condenser to the evaporator. A leak detector and alarm to be provided and communicate with BMS System. One (1) new 1,100 cfm general and toilet exhaust utility fan to be located on the roof to serve all new toilets, lockers, soiled utility and janitor’s closets. ELEC: New utility electrical CT/meter cabinet will be provided with new 120/208V, 800A distribution circuit breaker panel for the new NYU clinic loads. All new tenant panelboards will be located in the tenant electrical room. Large loads from the new 800A panel indicated above are outlined as per the below: New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 4 (9/6/2022) New 400A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new boiler and heating system loads. New 400A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new RTU and condenser. New 100A circuit shall be installed to the roof for new electric hot water heater. New 200A, 2 section panel shall be installed for all new NYU clinic lighting, receptacles and equipment loads. Electric power will be provided to all tenant loads as follows: •Receptacle Loads will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Telecom/BMS/Security will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Lighting loads will be energized at 120V, 1Ø •Motor loads rated below 1/2HP will be energized at 120V or 208V, 1Ø. •Motor loads rated 1/2HP and greater will be energized at 208V, 3Ø. Branch circuits will consist of insulated copper conductors in raceway or cable. A minimum of 20 ampere branch circuits will be provided for lighting and power. Minimum wire size will be #12 AWG. Wiring will be copper with type THHN or type THWN insulation rated at 600 volts. Wire sizes #10 AWG and smaller will be solid, wire sizes #8 AWG and larger will be stranded. Branch circuit wiring shall be sized to limit voltage drop to less than 2. on the branch circuit. Maximum branch circuit lengths shall be identified on the design drawings. All lighting and power circuits will be provided with dedicated neutrals. All branch circuits serving patient care areas shall be provided with an effective ground fault current path by installation in a metal raceway for emergency branch circuits. Healthcare Facility MC or AC cable shall be utilized for normal concealed branch circuits in patient care areas. At a minimum, each examination room shall have (4) hospital grade duplex grounded receptacles convenient to the exam chair as per FGI requirements. Each enclosed, single occupancy office, 100 sf or less in area, shall have at least four (4) duplex receptacles, two (2) receptacles in a quad configuration located by the work station and two (2) convenience receptacles on the remaining walls. Hospital grade tamper resistant duplex grounded type receptacles shall be installed in all areas in sufficient quantities for program requirements. Non patient care spaces shall be provided with spec grade tamper resistant devices, unless otherwise required by NYULH. Lighting controls in the building spaces will be provided in accordance with the NY State Energy Code and consist of public corridors, restrooms, and lobbies will be controlled via ceiling mounted dual technology occupancy sensors, a power pack and a low voltage control switch to allow for automatic “on”, automatic “off” operation. Lighting in offices, exam rooms, storages and utility rooms will be controlled via wall mounted dual technology vacancy sensors for manual “on”, automatic “off” operation. Dimming and daylight harvesting controls as required per Code and user preference. Low voltage dimming shall be provided as required throughout as directed by the program requirements and shall be 0 10V typically. A nurse call system is not required per Code and can be provided should NYULH project wish to provide one at patient toilets. PLBG: The proposed program will require approximately 86 gpm of domestic cold water consumption for all proposed plumbing fixtures. The domestic cold water to the space shall be served by a new 2½” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, with lead free solder, glass mineral pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). The domestic water shall provide a minimum of 35 psi to the most hydraulically remote fixture during minimum pressure and maximum flow conditions. The domestic water system shall limit water velocity to 8 fps for main distribution branches, 4 fps on smaller branch legs. The proposed program will require approximately 25 gpm of domestic hot water consumption for all proposed plumbing fixtures. The domestic hot water to the space shall be served by a new 1½” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, with lead free solder, glass mineral pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). Domestic hot water shall be achieved via two heater options. A natural gas fired water heater, as manufactured by A.O. Smith Cyclone Mxi model #BTH 150 or equal, minimum thermal efficiency, a storage capacity of 100 gallons, an input rating of 150,00 BTU’s per hour and a recovery rating of 49 gallon per hour. Water heater shall be equipped with a thermo expansion tank, drip pan, leak detection system with solenoid shut off valve, gas cut off and a recirculating pump. An electric water heater, as manufactured by A.O. Smith Custom Xi Series, model #DSE 65 or equal, Heater should be rated at 12.3 kW, 208 volts, 3 phase, 50/60 cycle AC, a storage capacity of New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 5 (9/6/2022) 65 gallons, and a recovery rating of 50 gallon per hour. Water heater shall be equipped with a thermo expansion tank, drip pan, leak detection system with solenoid shut off valve, gas cut off and a recirculating pump. The new hot water storage tanks will store hot water at a nominal temperature of 140 degrees F. A thermostatic mixing valve shall be provided at the heater to reduce hot water temperature to approximately 120 degrees F. for distribution to plumbing fixtures. A new 1½” hot water distribution main will be extended from the water heater and distribution to all the hot water plumbing fixtures. Domestic hot water shall provide the minimum required pressure to the most hydraulically remote fixture during minimum pressure and maximum flow conditions. The domestic hot water system shall limit water velocity to 8 fps for main distribution branches, 4 fps on smaller branch legs. All new domestic hot water return piping shall be ¾” type ‘L’ hard drawn copper pipe, wrought copper solder joint fittings, lead free solder, glass mineral insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). A new ¾” hot water common return and branch piping will be provided to all plumbing fixtures where required by the NYSECC. The domestic hot water system temperature will be maintained by circulating hot water from the supply circuit. Analysis for branch recirculation will consider flow rates of individual outlets, as well as distance and pipe sizes. Minimize “dead legs” on the domestic hot water systems shall comply with current ECC. The new hot water recirculating system shall be a Bell & Gossett Ecocirc XL 55 45, 25 gpm, 27 TDH, 1/2 HP, 208 volts, single phase circulating pump with aquastat controls as required by the ECC. This circulating pump shall be located and installed at the water heater. Sanitary & Vent All new sanitary/waste and vent piping shall be no hub cast iron pipe with stainless steel shield and gasket couplings above grade. The pitch of the new drainage system shall be of sufficient velocity to produce a scouring action that will convey all solids along with the liquid stream. Minimum velocity will be 2 fps. The sizing for the sanitary discharge will be based on the maximum discharge flow rate of all connected plumbing fixtures and equipment. Drainage from the new plumbing fixtures, floor drains, and equipment shall be collected and connected to the sanitary system. Ample clean out deck plates shall be provided on the sanitary piping serving all spaces. The venting system shall be designed to limit air pressure fluctuations within the sanitary drainage piping. The sizing of the branch vent piping will be based on the connected fixture units and developed length of vent pipe. Venting of plumbing fixtures shall be collected and connected to the vent system on an individual floor basis and will be connected to a new VTR. The sizing of the branch vent piping will be based on the connected fixture units and developed length of vent pipe. Toilet Rooms Patient, Staff and Visitors shall include wall mounted, back outlet, elongated water closet (1.28 GPF); open front toilet seat; flush valve (1.28 GPF). Lavatory, vitreous china basin, counter; hands free, faucet (.25 GPM per cycle), source of power shall be coordinated with NYULH requirements; carrier with floor anchors for wall mounted; wall carrier for wall mounted; chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Staff Break Room shall include stainless steel sink, single bowl, single hole; faucet (2.2 GPM); chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Exam Room shall include stainless steel sink, single bowl; faucet (2.2 GPM; chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. Faucet to be 10” above bottom of sink. Janitors Closet shall include a floor basin, terrazzo, single bowl; faucet (2.2 GPM) Faucet spout, top braced to wall, with bucket hook and threaded hose end with wrist blade handles; cast iron P trap. New York State Department of Health Schedule 6 Certificate of Need Application DOH 155 B Schedule 6 Page 6 (9/6/2022) Phlebotomy and Mothers shall include, stainless steel sink, single bowl, single hole; faucet (2.2 GPM); chrome plated pipe wall supplies; chrome plated angle stops; chrome plated escutcheon with set screws; chrome plated P trap with slip nuts. The existing storm system shall remain as is and will only be modified as required. Any new storm piping shall match existing piping installed. Existing and or new storm piping shall be insulated with vapor barrier, glass mineral, pipe insulation and all surface jacketing (ASJ). The new natural gas system shall consist of a new natural gas service with a gas meter as required for the CFH load of all gas fire equipment. Natural gas piping shall be threaded, standard weight, schedule 40, black steel pipe and fittings shall be steel or wrought iron. SPRK: New sprinklers associated piping, hangers and supports will be provided in all areas of the space as required by NYS BC and all applicable standards in accordance with requirements for fully sprinklered building. The sprinkler system shall be an automatic wet pipe type. Given the information available at this time, the program is not anticipated to include elements that require pre action sprinkler or alternative automatic extinguishing systems. Sprinkler heads will be quick / fast response type throughout, unless not permitted by NYS BC and all applicable standards (extra hazard occupancies) or otherwise not suitable for an application (high temperature spaces). Quantity of sprinkler heads shall be determined based on architectural design. It is anticipated that 211 sprinkler heads will be needed. The new sprinkler system shall be looped, hydraulically sized for