list. o Sequence of operation shall not be a facsimile of the engineer’s project documentation o Note: For variable air volume air handling systems, control diagrams are to indicate field installed location of end of duct static pressure transmitters. • The BMS vendor must include detailed panel control layout in the submittal drawings, including all associated devices such as controllers, circuit breakers (CB), power supplies (PS), transformers (TX), control relays (CR), terminal blocks, wire ducts, and labels. Check figure CPL 01 as a reference for the control panel layout. Figure CPL 01A shows the control panel layout if the control panel has an external power source control panel. Ladder type electrical diagrams for each control system with terminal connections identified by number and location. Include symbol and abbreviation list for electrical control diagrams. • Complete listing and description of program routines resident in direct digital control units. • Schedule of all points trended for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and trend interval. • Riser diagrams for power and communication with locations labeled for all controllers, transformers and other relevant control components. • Panelboard from which power shall be taken, along with total power to be taken from each panelboard. • Interfaces (software and hardware) with equipment provided in other subsections of the specifications. Show connection details based upon the approved submittals of the equipment being interfaced with. For software interfaces (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.), submit list of all interface points transmitted to or received from the equipment. • List of OEM equipment interface points as well as configuration point mapping. • Mechanical piping shop drawings indicating proposed locations of all temperature, flow and pressure transmitters. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 520 2024 • Wiring and control diagrams, dimension and specification sheets, and sequence of operation for the flow tracking system and all of its components. • Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, submittal documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to NYULH Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive submittal indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. • Reviews shall be conducted by: o Senior Controls Specialists o Engineering and Commissioning o Approval shall be by Engineer of Record • The following submittals can be included in the overall BAS submittal or submitted as standalone documents: a. Network Architecture Diagram Submittal shall consist of the following: • System Architecture Drawing Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed location of communication loop and risers. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record b. Control Valve Schedule Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of automatic control valves and motorized block valves. The schedule shall list body pressure rating, close off pressure rating, flow coefficient (Cv), pressure drop at specified capacity, rangeability and valve flow characteristics. • Specification sheets for each valve. • Valves shall be sized based on approved equipment shop drawings, not mechanical schedules. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 521 2024 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record c. Floor Plan with Proposed Panel and Wall Mounted Device Locations Submittal shall consist of the following: • Architectural floor plans indicating proposed locations of all wall mounted devices (i.e., DDC units, control panels, sensors, thermostats, risers, etc.). d. Schedule of BMS Alarms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Schedule of all alarms (hardwired and software generated) for each system. Schedule to include system name, system tag, control panel serving equipment, point name, point description and alarm value. • Description of smart alarm program as it applies for each system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record e. BMS Graphics Submittal shall consist of the following: • PDF copies of proposed graphics to be added to the BMS. • BMS graphics to show proposed layout of BAS points and any diagrams or tables as required. • BMS graphics shall be developed based on NYU standard graphic symbols, colors and design as found in the Smarts section under HMI/Graphics. • All BMS graphics shall be coordinated with NYULH. • BMS graphics shall include system maps showing overlays of single line mechanical systems. o System map overlays shall be allowed to toggle between Off, Supply, Exhaust, Supply and Exhaust, Reheat Water, Chilled Water and Perimeter Hot Water systems. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 522 2024 Reviews shall be conducted by: • Facility Management Team • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record f. Controller Reboot and Power Failure Restart Sequence Submittal shall consist of the following: • Detailed description of software program for controller reboot sequence. • Detailed description of software program for controller power failure restart program sequence. • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Facility Management Team • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record g. Test Forms Submittal shall consist of the following: • Checklists of testing procedures, including point to point wiring and sequence check. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 523 2024 iii.ii. Closeout Documents a. Acceptance Documents The following Closeout Documents shall be reviewed and accepted prior to final acceptance of the project by NYULH: • Operation and Maintenance Documentation o As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format o As Built Database • 72 Hour Trend Reports • BAS Vendor Service Agreement b. Operation and Maintenance Documentation On completion of installation, system commissioning and Facility Management Team acceptance, the BATC Contractor shall provide operation and maintenance manuals. Manuals shall be updated each time changes are made to the system. Manual shall be submitted through BuildFlow electronically. In addition, one hard copy shall be furnished in a three ring binder and provided to the local Engineering Office. Operation and maintenance documentation shall consist of the following: • Table of contents • As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format • Programming manual containing the following: o Documentation of all project specific application and BMS programs o All passwords and/or required access credentials o Complete final point schedule including all hardware and software data points and documentation of calibration and configuration values for all inputs, outputs, variables and PID loops at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing o System database as functional at the conclusion of system commissioning and functional testing, including all graphics and images used by and/or created on electronic format • Parts list containing supplier information (manufacturer name, address, telephone number and website address) with complete component model number and ordering information. • Final calibration, commissioning and testing reports. • Warranty letters for all installed systems and components. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 524 2024 Operation and maintenance manual must be submitted to the Facility Management Team prior to occupancy. Systems will not be accepted by NYULH without submission and approval of operation and maintenance manuals. i. As Built Drawings provided in PDF, and editable Visio or AutoCAD format Submittal shall consist of the following, which shall represent the "as built" condition of the system and incorporate all information supplied with the approved submittals, inclusive of: • Updated existing system architecture drawing, inclusive of any modifications made during the project construction. • Indicating Tie In Points, Hardware, Cabling Distances, Controllers, Equipment Served, Etc. • Sequence of operation • Bill of Material • Control diagrams depicting controlled system configuration indicating all field devices • Control panel wiring diagrams o Include power panel number and circuit breaker number feeding each control panel • Starter/VFD interface wiring diagrams • Point list for all hardwired input/output points • Point list for all input/output points derived via communication interface (i.e., BACnet, Modbus, etc.) with third party equipment such as air conditioning units, variable frequency drives and chillers • Floor plans indicating exact location of all devices • All other items listed as requirements of the BAS Submittal Note: For projects where minor modifications are made to an existing control system, “as built” documentation shall be inclusive of all existing control work associated with the system as well as the new work provided as part of the project. Existing work shall be identified as shadowed block areas or other means acceptable to the Facility Management Team. New work shall be bold. Intent is to have a comprehensive “as built” shop drawing indicating all existing and new control work associated with the system. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by the Engineer of Record With each local control panel, provide a paper copy of the “as built” control diagram, sequence of operation, bill of material and point list for NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 525 2024 the equipment served by the control panel. Documentation shall be placed in a plastic sleeve located on the inside of the door. ii. As Built Database A composite “as built” database shall be created and updated at completion of each project. The database shall consist of the following: • All “as built” documentation • Project start and completion dates • Warranty start and completion date • Brief description of project scope • Names of the BATC Contractor project team: • Project Manager • Field technicians • Software programmers • Subcontractor name and contact information • Software database • Software shall be accessible via dynamic link on respective equipment graphics c. 72 Hour Trend Reports Submittal shall consist of the following: • Trending data for 72 hour automatic system operation. • Trending data to include all relevant hardwired and software data points associated with the system that shall indicate that the system is operating as per design intent. Reviews shall be conducted by: • Senior Controls Specialists • Engineering and Commissioning • Approval shall be by Engineer of Record F. Performance and Functional Requirements i. System Requirements Note: for details on the software functions listed for each system, see the corresponding software function in the “Functional Requirements” section. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 526 2024 a. Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) Hardware • Pressure independent unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor utilizing differential pressure sensing. • Damper actuator shall be fail in place type. • For terminal units with reheat coils, provide discharge temperature transmitter. • Reheat coil control valves shall be spring return fail closed. • Space temperature sensor located in occupied areas shall be indicating and adjustable with a limit of ± 3°F (adjustable). o Where multiple sensors are installed in a room served by multiple terminal units, only one sensor shall be indicating and adjustable type. o Set point adjustment shall be common for all terminal units serving a room. • Space temperature sensors located in unoccupied or transient areas such as corridors are to be non indicating and non adjustable. • Space temperature sensors for vivarium spaces shall be duct mounted. Setpoints shall be adjusted via BMS only. • Transformer, damper actuator, unitary controller with differential pressure transmitter and fuse shall be mounted in a NEMA 1 steel enclosure with removable screw cover. Disconnect switch to be mounted external to panel. Switch activation shall not require removal of enclosure panel. • Provide occupancy sensors to enable setback functions Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Air Volume Control (Non Tracking) • Night Setback • Shared Perimeter Radiation Valve Control • Cooling and heating set points should adjust up and down and maintain a built in bias of 2°F (adjustable). • All boxes must contain a k factor in the software depending on box size according to manufacturer as well as a calibration factor. o Formula: Sqrt(Velocity Pressure)*(Box Size k factor)*(Balancer’s Reading/BMS Reading) o Maximum and Minimum flow K factors shall be programmed for precise VAV CFM control. • Alarms • Demand Response • Air quality system interface for air change rate adjustment • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 527 2024 Points • Terminal unit airflow reading • Terminal unit airflow set point • Discharge temperature (for units with reheat coils only) • Discharge temperature set point (for units with reheat coils only) • Reheat coil valve command (for units with reheat coils only) • Space temperature • Space temperature set points • Space temperature high and low alarm limits • Occupied heat/cool set points • Unoccupied heat/cool set points • Damper position • Occupancy mode • Perimeter radiation valve command (for units with perimeter heating only) • Include six additional software points to be defined by NYULH. b. Fan Powered VAV All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Fan Powered VAVs as well. In addition, provide the following: • Run status monitoring of fan via current sensing relay. • On actuation of a life safety alarm in the area served by the terminal unit, the unit fan shall stop and the primary air damper shall fully open. • Additional points: o Fan start/stop o Fan run status c. Flow Tracking Applications All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow Tracking Applications) apply to Flow Tracking Applications as well. In addition, provide the following: • A control panel for each tracking pair that shall contain the control unit, supply terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and control transformer. The supply terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, flow cross airflow sensor, and supply air temperature transmitter (located downstream of the reheat coil). The exhaust terminal unit shall contain a unit mounted electric spring return actuator, exhaust terminal unit differential pressure transmitter and flow cross airflow sensor. o Minimum airflow sensor measurement accuracy shall be ± of actual airflow and shall have a repeatability within ± 0. over the entire airflow range of each air terminal. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 528 2024 • Additional software functions: o Flow Tracking Control o Fume Hood Control • Additional points: o Fume hood exhaust flow o Fume hood exhaust low flow alarm. o Supply/makeup airflow o General exhaust flow o Total exhaust flow o Total supply flow o Room offset • Flow Tracking Terminal Units Associated with Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply, general exhaust and fume hood terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (4 20 mA input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Loss of electric power or control signal shall cause the exhaust damper to fail open to the maximum scheduled design flow, and the supply damper to fail closed to the minimum scheduled design flow. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 1.0 second for flow change from minimum flow to ninety percent () at nominal load. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet NEC Class 2 requirements. • Flow Tracking Terminal Units without Fume Hoods: Damper actuators for supply and general exhaust terminal units shall have an electric spring return actuator (0 10 VDC or 2 10 VDC input signal) factory mounted to each terminal unit. Electric actuator stroke time shall not exceed 90 seconds. Actuator shall be maintenance free high speed type with manual override and shall meet UL Class 2 requirements. Actuator shall be either 120 VAC or 24 VAC. • Spider type multiple probe airflow sensing tubes of the automatic averaging type shall be 316 or 304 stainless steel. Accuracy of the sensing tubes shall be ± 2. with a repeatability of 0. over a range of 0 3,000 ft./min. at 1 duct diameter upstream straight run duct. The flow signal shall also be used as the input to the BMS and also for balancing and field measurement of air volume. The following pertains specifically to fume hoods: • Operational Parameters (to be available to the NYULH Facility Management Team and authorized service personnel): o Fume hood average face velocity set point o Fume hood minimum and maximum exhaust airflow set points o Face velocity high and low alarm limits and associated alarm time delay to avoid transient alarms o Face velocity high and low warning limits o Emergency purge time periods and exhaust levels o Allowable maximum sash opening associated with the sash alert feature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 529 2024 • Pushbutton: Provide a mushroom type pushbutton and local audible annunciation (i.e., horn) located at the exit door of each area that contains a fume hood. The switch shall, on annunciation, drive the fume hood to maximum airflow. On activation of the pushbutton switch, the audible alarm shall be activated. Switch and audible alarm shall be provided with a label for user operation as per NYULH Health and Safety requirements. Labels shall state instructional operation and required actions that need to be perform, if needed. Switch shall be manually reset type furnished with protective cover to allow the switch to be viewable without tampering or accidental activation. • Hood Interface Module: The hood interface module shall provide emergency override, high flow alarm, low flow alarm, hood status lights and programmable audible alarm. Audible alarm shall be no more than 85 dB at 1 meter (95 dB at 1 meter for constant volume applications). Module shall be designed to fit in a 2 inch by 4 inch (single gang) electric box and mounted on the face of the fume hood. Connection using phone jack termination. All alarm set points shall be fully field programmable as well as the time delay interval prior to alarming. Module shall also allow high/low sash alarms and limits (does not apply to constant volume applications). All points shall be monitored at the flow tracking control unit. Alarm and mute functions shall automatically reset when the alarm condition ceases to exist. Alarm annunciation shall be as follows: o Normal Condition: Green LED lighted o Alarm Condition: Red LED lighted, indicating either:  Low face velocity (low hood airflow for constant volume applications)  High face velocity (high hood airflow for constant volume applications)  Emergency override o Caution or Control Transition: Green and red LED’s flash alternately o Buzzer: Energized in any alarm or override condition o Pushbutton Functions  Override: Push once  Reset to Normal Operation: Push once  Alarm Acknowledgment (Audible Mute): Push twice (LED remains lighted while alarm condition exists) d. Applications with Chilled Beams All system requirements listed under Constant and Variable Air Volume Terminal Units (Non Flow and Flow Tracking Applications) apply to this section. In addition, provide the following: • Each chilled beam valve shall have at least one humidistat monitoring the space to calculate space dew point. The valve shall close to prevent condensation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 530 2024 d.e. Air Handling Units Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit per air handling unit • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive • Chilled water return temperature transmitter • Mixed air temperature transmitter • Utilize latching relays for air handling units serving critical areas (i.e., OR’s, Laboratories, Vivarium, patient areas) • Humidifier valve control signal to be wired in series with fan run status contact. If fan is off, humidifier valve hardwired to close. • Damper actuators (outdoor, return, spill) must have spring return actuators with manual override. • Each preheat coil section to have individual temperature control valve with dedicated temperature sensor for low limit control. • Cooling coil to have one control valve for entire coil section with individual manual balancing valves on individual coil sections. • VFD’s must be programmed to skip resonance frequencies. Software • Occupied/Unoccupied Control • Supply Air Temperature Control • Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • Humidification Control • Dehumidification Control • Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • Flow Control • Airside Economizer Control • Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • Indoor Air Quality Control • Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Fan Shutdown Mode • Fire Alarm Reset • Lead/lag Control • Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure e.f. Packaged Air Conditioning Units Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Utilize latching relays for air conditioning units serving critical areas • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 531 2024 Software • The unit shall be started locally and run continuously. The BMS shall be capable of starting and stopping the unit. • When running, the unit shall modulate the chilled water valve to maintain space temperature. • A point type leak detector in the unit’s drip pan shall be installed and wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring only. On activation of a leak detector, the respective unit shall continue to run and an alarm shall be activated at the operator workstations. Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature • Space temperature set point • Chilled water valve position • Fan failure alarm • Common alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm • Low space temperature alarm f.g. Fan Coil Units Hardware • Unitary Controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor o Note: Unitary controller is to be powered by a transformer that is energized on its primary side from the line side of the power feed to fan coil unit. This is to prevent a communication loss to the controller when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. • Utilize latching relays for fan coil units serving critical areas. • Leak detector • Current sensing relay for fan run status • Space temperature sensor • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for cooling • Spring return normally closed modulating control valve for heating o If fan coil unit has ducted unconditioned outdoor air, provide normally open valve for heating. Software • Fan Coil Unit Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Space temperature NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 532 2024 • Space temperature set point • Fan failure alarm • Leak alarm • High space temperature alarm g.h. Exhaust Fans Hardware • Unitary controller shall be furnished by BMS vendor • Low suction and discharge pressure switches • Space temperature (as required) • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive (as applicable) Software • Exhaust Fan Control Points • Fan start/stop • Fan run status • Fan failure alarm • High space temperature alarm • Pressure switch alarms h.i. Chillers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve fifty percent () of chilled water plant equipment (e.g., chillers, pumps, cooling towers). Provide two control units per chiller plant. • Provide BACnet communication interface with factory provided chiller control panel. • Utilize latching relays for enable/disable. • Provide field devices for chilled water supply temperature and condenser water return temperature. Software • Chiller Control • Lead/lag Control NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 533 2024 Points (at minimum, full list shall be reviewed by facilities on a project by project basis) • Enable/disable (hard wired) • Common alarm (hard wired) • Chiller run status • Chilled water supply temperature • Chilled water return temperature • Condenser waste supply temperature • Condenser water return temperature • Chilled water differential pressure • Chilled water differential pressure setpoint • Condenser water differential pressure • Condenser water differential pressure setpoint • Chiller runtime • Power (kW) • Kilowatt Hours • Current (amps) • BTU for each chiller • BTU totalizer for entire plant • Safety Shutdown • Warnings i.j. Cooling Towers Hardware • Control to be incorporated within chiller BACnet IP controller or dedicated controller based on location of cooling tower with respect to chillers. • Monitor vibration alarm. • Monitor basin water temperature. • Monitor basin level. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. Software • Cooling Tower Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Cooling tower start/stop (hard wired) • Cooling tower run status (hard wired) • Condenser water supply temperature (hard wired) • Condenser water return temperature (hard wired) • Cooling tower fan runtime • Basin water temperature • Basin level • Speed feedback NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 534 2024 • Output frequency • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode • Cooling tower vibration alarm • Basin low water temperature alarm • Basin high water level alarm • Basin low water level alarm • Cooling tower fan excessive runtime alarm j.k. Pumps Hardware • Provide BACnet or Modbus communication interface with variable frequency drive. • Utilize latching relays for start/stop. • Differential pressure transmitters used for pump speed control shall be hardwired directly to the controller containing the analog output for pump speed control regardless of the transmitter location. Software • Variable Speed Pump Control • Lead/Lag Control Points • Pump start/stop (hard wired) • Pump run status (hard wired) • Speed command (hard wired) • Speed feedback • Output frequency • Total Runtime • Current (amps) • % torque • Power (kW) • Kilowatt hours • Operating hours NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 535 2024 • Drive temperature • All diagnostic warning and fault information • Remote fault reset • Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected • Bypass selected • Motor running in bypass mode • Motor running in inverter mode k.l. Heat Exchangers Hardware • BACnet IP based direct digital control unit to serve water system, including pumps and heat exchangers. • For systems with multiple heat exchangers, provide a supply water temperature sensor per each heat exchanger. Software • Lead/lag Control Points • Supply water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable for HX temperature control, match set sensors preferred) • Return water temperature (common plus individual, if applicable, match set sensors preferred with the supply) • High supply water temperature alarm • Low supply water temperature alarm l.m. Expansion Tanks Hardware • Pressure transmitter Points • High pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi above operating pressure) • Low pressure alarm (set point shall be 5 psi below operating pressure) ii. Functional Requirements a. Fan Shutdown Mode • On a command to stop a fan, the fan shall ramp down to its minimum speed and the fan shall stop. • The fan discharge damper shall close slowly and shall not be fully closed until fan speed has decreased to approximately ten percent (). • The outdoor, return and spill air dampers shall close after the fan has stopped and the discharge damper has closed fully. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 536 2024 • Refer to Unoccupied Mode. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units b. Floor/Area Isolation Dampers (Combination Fire/Smoke Dampers) • Supply floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the supply fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper are stopped. • Return floor/area isolation dampers shall open when the return fan serving the damper is started and shall close when the fan serving the damper is off. • All supply and return dampers on a floor shall be controlled in a group via a hardwired connection to their respective fan’s variable frequency drive. o Supply dampers shall be grouped independently of return dampers. • Dampers shall be positioned open prior to fan starting regardless if fan is started from BMS, manual command from VFD, bypass function of VFD or fan start from fire alarm system. • End switch status of dampers shall be monitored. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units c. Preheat Coil Low Limit Control • The normally open steam preheat coil control valves, one (1) per coil, shall be under control of DDC software low limit controllers to maintain a minimum air temperature of 45°F leaving the preheat coils, signal as sensed by temperature transmitters on the leaving air side of each coil section. • The low limit set point shall be reset by the BMS based on outside air temperature. As outside air temperature drops, the low limit set point shall be raised. Reset parameters shall be adjustable. d. Airside Economizer Control • Economizer control will be enabled based on the following conditions: o Global outside air enthalpy is enabled (i.e., outdoor air enthalpy is greater than 25 BTUs per pound of dry air) or outside air temperature plus an outside air temperature trigger deadband (adjustable) is less than the air handling unit return air temperature. o Supply fan status is proven on. o System is not operating in Warm Up/Cool Down Mode and Heating is off. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 537 2024 • When enabled, the outside air damper, spill air damper and return air damper will modulate to maintain a mixed air temperature control set point (adjustable). • The mixed air control set point will be adjusted based on the supply air temperature error set point. • The supply air temperature error set point is based on how far off the supply air temperature is from the supply air temperature set point. o For example, if the supply air temperature is 53°F and the supply air temperature set point is 55°F then the supply air temperature error set point is 2°F. • A mixed air temperature error set point of 0 °F (adjustable) will control to the supply air temperature error set point and output a mixed air temperature heat gain set point. • The mixed air temperature heat gain set point will range from a minimum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 4°F (adjustable) to a maximum mixed air temperature heat gain set point of 5°F (adjustable). • The supply air temperature set point minus the mixed air temperature heat gain set point will determine the mixed air temperature control set point. • As the mixed air temperature increases above mixed air temperature control set point, the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate open and the return air damper will close proportionately. • The reverse will occur on a decrease below the mixed air temperature control set point. • The outside air damper will maintain a minimum outside air flow set point (adjustable based upon the Minimum Outdoor Air Flow Quantity Control functional requirement). Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units e. Night Setback • Whenever the terminal unit fan is off, the system shall operate in the unoccupied mode. • During this mode, a DDC software program shall monitor the space temperature associated with a terminal unit. • On sensing a drop in space temperature to 55°F (adjustable), the controller shall start the terminal unit fan and maintain space temperature set point by modulating the reheat coil control valve and perimeter radiation control valve. • On achieving space temperature set point, the terminal unit fan shall stop, if still operating in the unoccupied mode, or continue to run switched to occupied mode. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 538 2024 Requirement applies to the following systems: • Fan powered variable volume terminal units with reheat and perimeter radiation f. Supply Fan Static Pressure Control • A static pressure transmitter shall be located in the supply air duct, upstream of the furthest terminal unit served by the air handling unit. • The system's supply fan speed shall modulate to maintain supply static pressure set point. o As duct static pressure decreases, the controller output shall increase, to increase fan speed. On an increase in duct static pressure, the output of the controller shall decrease, to decrease fan speed. o A software auto/manual switch function shall enable the operator to override the output of the static pressure controller and adjust fan speed from the operator workstation or DDC controller. • A second static pressure transmitter in the supply fan discharge duct shall act as a high limit safety. o If fan discharge static pressure exceeds its set point, the high limit controller shall, through a software low selector, override the output of the system static pressure controller to proportionally reduce the speed of its respective supply fan to maintain fan discharge pressure high limit set point. o The controller set point shall be reset such that no terminal unit shall operate at its fully open position to maintain airflow set point. • Static pressure controls shall control system operation during all cycles of operation. • A DDC static pressure software program shall monitor the position of variable air volume terminal unit dampers and shall calculate the quantity of dampers that are less than eighty percent () open. o If the majority of terminal units are less than eighty percent () open, the DDC software controller shall reset the supply fan static pressure set point downward in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at open. If the majority of the dampers are more than ninety percent () open, the program shall reset the set point upwards in 0.1 inch w.c. (adjustable) increments every 5 minutes until the majority of the dampers are at eighty percent () open. • During system start up, the static pressure control algorithm, integral control mode, shall be suppressed until the control point is within the proportional band of the controller to avoid reset windup. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 539 2024 g. Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control • An airflow measuring station installed upstream of the minimum outside air damper shall measure minimum airflow and transmit this information to the BMS. • Should outside airflow be below set point, the return air damper shall be modulated closed and the spill damper open until the minimum outside airflow is at set point. • Should outside air flow be above set point, the return air damper shall be modulated open and the spill damper closed until the minimum outside air flow is at set point. • If the outside air flow continues to be above set point, the minimum outdoor air damper shall modulate to a preset minimum value. • This program shall be overridden whenever the variable outdoor air damper is open during the economizer mode of operation. • Minimum outdoor air damper shall be modulating type. Mixed air low limit temperature control: • If the mixed air temperature sensor decreases below a mixed air low limit set point of 39°F (adjustable), the outside air damper and spill air damper will modulate closed and the return air damper will modulate open. • This function shall override Minimum Outdoor Airflow Quantity Control. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units h. Fire Alarm Reset • After a fire alarm shutdown, the system shall automatically restart as long as no safety interlocks require a manual reset. • Unit shall resume operation to maintain last known setpoints prior to fire alarm shutdown. Requirement applies to the following systems: • Air handling units i. Flow Control • The unit’s DDC controller shall contain a software based flow control program. The software controller shall receive input signals from airflow measuring stations installed in the inlet of its respective supply and return