Page 1 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Issuing Department: Administration Effective Date: April 1, 2009 Last Update: November 13, 2020 Contents: I.SummaryII.ApplicabilityIII.General PolicyIV.DisclosureV.Review and EvaluationVI.PHS and Other Sponsor RequirementsVII.Sub recipientsVIII.TrainingIX.DefinitionsX.EnforcementXI.AdministrationXII.Relationship to Other PoliciesI.SummaryNYU Langone Health is committed to operating in an ethical manner and in compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Even the appearance of a significant conflict of interest in research at NYU Langone Health can be damaging to the reputation of NYU Langone Health. NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting provides a comprehensive approach for the identification, disclosure and oversight of all conflicts arising from the external interests and activities of NYU Langone Health and members of the NYU Langone Community, as well as the conduct of NYU Langone Health’s business. The Policies require employed faculty members, designated employees, officers and trustees to disclose financial relationships for review on an annual basis. This Policy is a part of the Policies and requires disclosure of financial interests on a per project basis by individuals participating in research and sponsored programs at NYU Langone Health. Under this Policy, individuals participating in research and other sponsored programs must disclose all financial interests that reasonably appear to be related to the individual’s responsibilities at NYU Langone Health and to the specific project. NYU Langone Health, through its Conflicts of Interest Management Unit (CIMU), will then review and evaluate such disclosures, determine if a conflict of interest exists, and determine whether such conflict can be managed or must be eliminated in order to permit the researcher to engage in the project. II.ApplicabilityThis Policy applies to all Investigators participating in a Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. All capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section XI below. Page 2 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs III.General PolicyA.Investigators participating in a Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYULangone Health have a primary obligation to serve the purposes to which NYU Langone Health is dedicated. As part of this obligation, Investigators have a duty to conduct research free of any appearance of impropriety or conflict of interest. B.A “Conflict of Interest” exists in a Sponsored Project when NYU Langone Health’s designatedofficials reasonably determine that an Investigator’s Financial Interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the design, conduct or reporting of the Sponsored Project. C.To assure that all potential Conflicts of Interest are identified, all Investigators participating in aSponsored Project must submit disclosures of personal financial interests, of any value, of the Investigator and his or her Immediate Family that reasonably appear related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health before and during the life of the Sponsored Project. D.All potential Conflicts of Interest require disclosure, evaluation and either management orelimination under this Policy. E.Certain Conflicts of Interest are too significant to manage and must be eliminated. When anInvestigator has a Significant Financial Interest, the Investigator may not participate in a Sponsored Project. An exception to this policy may be made only when the Chief Scientific Officer of NYU Langone Health or the CIMU determine that Compelling Circumstances exist to merit an exception and a conflict management plan is adopted to maintain research integrity and serve the best interests of subjects enrolled in the research. IV.DisclosureInvestigators must submit annual and project specific disclosures as described below. Disclosures must be completed and submitted even if no Financial Interests are disclosed. Disclosures of Financial Interests must be made in specific amounts. For PHS Sponsored Projects, disclosures of Paid/Reimbursed Travel must specify each instance of paid or reimbursed travel at a minimum, as well as the purpose of each trip, the identity of each sponsor/organizer, its destination and its duration. A.Annual Disclosures. All Investigators who are part of the NYU Langone Community are requiredunder NYU Langone Health’s Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Business Affairs to complete and submit an annual disclosure, which is reviewed in accordance with that Policy. B.Project Disclosure Upon Submission. Each Investigator planning to participate in a proposedSponsored Project must complete and submit a research financial interest disclosure when prompted to following submission of the Sponsored Project to the Office of Science & Research (e.g., the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA) or the IRB). In the disclosure, Investigators must disclose all Financial Interests that reasonably relate to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health and to the specific Sponsored Project. The CIMU review and evaluation as described in Section V below. C.Project Disclosure Upon Annual Continuations. Each Investigator participating in a SponsoredProject must also complete and submit an investigator financial interest disclosure at each annual continuation of the Sponsored Project to the Office of Science & Research. Disclosures with Financial Interests will be subject to the review and evaluation process outlined in Section V.A(iv) below. D. Project Disclosure New Financial Interests. While a Sponsored Project is on going, an Investigator must complete and submit an investigator financial interest disclosure to the Office of Science & Page 3 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs Research for any new Financial Interest prior to acquiring such Financial Interest. The Investigator must not acquire the new Financial Interest unless and until the acquisition has been disclosed, reviewed, evaluated and permitted as contemplated by this Policy. E.Confidentiality. All disclosures will be kept confidential and disclosed only on a need to know basisas required to perform the review and evaluation required by this Policy and NYU Langone Health’s Policies on Conflicts of Interest, Commitment and Consulting, and to meet NYU Langone Health’s disclosure and/or reporting requirements under applicable laws, regulations, grants and/or contracts. V.Review and Evaluation of Project DisclosuresA.Conflict of Interest Management Unit (CIMU) Review. The CIMU is responsible for the review ofeach disclosure of a Financial Interest to determine if it could give rise to a Conflict of Interest in the Sponsored Project, as described below. (i) No Potential Conflict of Interest. For disclosures of Financial Interests that the CIMU finds do notreasonably appear to give rise to a Conflict of Interest, the CIMU will advise the Office of Science &Research that there is no Conflict of Interest and no conflict management plan is required.(ii) Potential Conflict of Interest without Significant Financial Interest. For initial disclosures of aFinancial Interest that is not a Significant Financial Interest, the CIMU will determine if a Conflictof Interest exists. If so, the Investigator’s participation will generally be permitted, subject to anappropriate conflict management plan issued by the CIMU. Conflict management plans issued by theCIMU may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. No expenditures mayoccur on the Sponsored Project until the CIMU’s review and evaluation is complete and a conflictmanagement plan is agreed to by both the principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and theInvestigator with the disclosed Financial Interest, if a different individual.(iii) Potential Conflict of Interest with Significant Financial Interest. For initial disclosures of aSignificant Financial Interest that could give rise to a Conflict of Interest, the CIMU will make adetermination whether or not Compelling Circumstances exist to justify the Investigator’sparticipation in the Sponsored Project notwithstanding the disclosed Significant Financial Interest.For matters giving rise to a significant potential Conflict of Interest, the CIMU, in consultation withthe Office of Legal Counsel and/or the Chief Scientific Officer, will first use diligent efforts toeliminate or manage the conflict. If the CIMU is unable to eliminate or manage the conflict or ifrecommended by the Chief Scientific Officer, the CIMU may refer the matter to the Business Conflictof Interest Committee (BCOIC).If Compelling Circumstances are found, the CIMU will approve a conflict management plan ascontemplated below. If Compelling Circumstances are not found or a conflict management plan isnot approved or agreed to as provided in Section V.B below, the Conflict of Interest must beeliminated in order for the Investigator to be permitted to carry out the Sponsored Project. Noexpenditures may occur on the Sponsored Project until the CIMU’s review and evaluation is completeand a conflict management plan is agreed to by both the principal investigator on the SponsoredProject and the Investigator with the disclosed Significant Financial Interest, if a different individual;or until the Conflict of Interest has been eliminated.(iv) Previously Reviewed Disclosures. For disclosures of a Financial Interest that has previously beenreviewed and evaluated and is subject to a conflict management plan issued under this Policy, theCIMU may, in its discretion, approve the continuation of the conflict management plan. If the natureof the previously reviewed Financial Interest has changed or the amount materially increased, Page 4 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs however, the disclosed Financial Interest will be reviewed and evaluated by the CIMU under this Policy as an initial disclosure for the Sponsored Project of a Financial Interest as provided in (ii) and (iii) above, a new conflict management plan may be adopted, and the Investigator’s failure to disclose the change in the nature or amount of the previously reviewed Financial Interest will be treated as a violation of this Policy. B. Conflict Management Plan. If an Investigator’s participation in a Sponsored Project is permitted notwithstanding a Conflict of Interest, the Investigator’s participation must be subject to a conflict management plan issued by the CIMU. The purpose of the conflict management plan will be to foster transparency in related interests and relationships, maintain the objectivity of research design, conduct, and reporting, and best serve the rights and welfare of subjects enrolled in the research. Possible management strategies to be considered are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. The conflict management plan must be agreed to by both the principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and the Investigator with the disclosed Financial Interest, if a different individual. In its review of Human Subjects Research projects, the IRB will consider the conflict management plans. The Sponsored Project cannot commence until IRB approval is released following receipt of the final determination and/or conflict management plan under this Policy. The principal investigator on the Sponsored Project and the Investigator with the managed Conflict of Interest must comply with all terms in the conflict management plan for the duration of the Sponsored Project. The CIMU is responsible for monitoring the compliance with the conflict management plan on an ongoing basis until the completion of the Sponsored Project. C. Research Conflict of Interest Committee. Any matter under this Policy may be presented for review and evaluation by NYU Langone Health’s Research Conflict of Interest Committee (RCOIC). The RCOIC’s role is advisory to NYU Langone Health’s Business Conflict of Interest Committee, the Chief Scientific Officer, and the CIMU. D. Appeals to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. Determinations of the CIMU may be appealed to NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer. Appeals must be in writing and submitted to the CIMU. The CIMU will provide copies of the appeal to the Chief Scientific Officer. Decisions of the Chief Scientific Officer are final. E. Timing. The review and evaluation of an Investigator’s disclosure and the issuance and implementation of any conflict management plan under this Policy must be completed prior to the expenditure of any awarded funds for the Sponsored Project or the commencement of the Investigator’s involvement in the Sponsored Project (including any enrollment of research subjects). VI. Disclosure of Interests in Publications and Presentations All Investigators must disclose their financial interests in publications and presentations whenever the Investigator has financial relationships with entities that could be perceived to influence, or that give the appearance of potentially influencing, what was included in the publication or presentation. Investigators with financial interests must adhere to any disclosure requirements in their conflict management plan and must comply with any disclosure requirements of the applicable journal or conference. If a disclosure requirement is not clear, Investigators should broadly disclose all applicable financial interests. Failure to make required disclosures or to comply with management plans is a violation of this Policy and will be cause for disciplinary action. VII. `Special PHS and Other Sponsor Requirements A. Research Sponsors often impose additional rules about conflicts of interest as a condition of providing funding. It is the policy of NYU Langone Health to comply with all such requirements, including Page 5 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs the PHS Regulations which apply to all research funded by a PHS agency (i.e., NIH, AHRQ, CDC, FDA, HRSA, SAMHSA, OG, OASH, ASPR, ATSDR, and IHS). This Policy is believed to be in compliance with the applicable federal sponsoring agency requirements, including the PHS Regulations. To the extent there is any issue about whether or not this Policy wholly complies with a Sponsor requirement, it is to be interpreted to assure compliance. Each Investigator is responsible for assuring his or her compliance with the requirements applicable to the Investigator’s specific Sponsored Project. B. For Sponsored Projects subject to the PHS Regulations (“PHS Sponsored Projects”), in addition to the review and evaluation in Section V, the additional requirements outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations apply. The additional requirements include the following: (i) A “PHS Conflict of Interest” exists when NYU Langone Health’s designated official(s) reasonably determines that a PHS Significant Financial Interest could directly and significantly affect the design, conduct, or reporting of a PHS Sponsored Project (see Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations of this document). (ii) PHS Conflict of Interest Findings. The CIMU is responsible for determining if a disclosure of a PHS Significant Financial Interest in a PHS Sponsored Project has resulted in a PHS Conflict of Interest. If a PHS Conflict of Interest is determined to exist, it shall be managed and/or eliminated as a Conflict of Interest in accordance with Section V. (iii) Retrospective Reviews/ Mitigation Reports. If an initial or ongoing disclosure of a PHS Significant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest for the PHS Sponsored Project is not disclosed or reviewed in a timely manner, the CIMU will review and evaluate the disclosure. If the CIMU makes a PHS Conflict of Interest determination for a late disclosure or review, it will issue a conflict management plan within 60 days of the disclosure or review, as applicable. When non compliance is found, the CIMU will conduct and document within 120 days of a determination of such non compliance, a retrospective review of the Investigator’s activities and the PHS Conflict of Interest. Examples of non compliance include failure of an Investigator to disclose a PHS Significant Financial Interest that could give rise to a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner; failure of NYU Langone Health to review and manage a PHS Significant Financial Interest determined to constitute a PHS Conflict of Interest in a timely manner; or failure of an Investigator to comply with the terms of a COI management plan relative to a PHS Conflict of Interest. This retrospective review will determine whether the PHS Sponsored Project, or any portion thereof conducted during the period of non compliance, was biased in the design, conduct, or reporting of such PHS Sponsored Project. If a retrospective review results in a finding of bias, the CIMU must file a mitigation report with the PHS sponsor. Retrospective reviews and mitigation reports, if required, must be completed by the CIMU in a timely manner. In any case in which the HHS determines that a PHS funded project of clinical research whose purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device, or treatment has been designed, conducted, or reported by an Investigator with a PHS Conflict of Interest that was not managed or reported as required by the regulation; NYU Langone Health must require the Investigator(s) involved to disclose the PHS Conflict of Interest in each public presentation of the results of the research and to request an addendum to previously published presentations. (iv) Public Access and Conflicts Reporting. The PHS Regulations impose public access and reporting requirements with respect to a PHS Conflict of Interest. Public access requirements include posting certain information about a PHS Conflict of Interest that NYU Langone Health’s placement on a publicly accessible Web site or provision of a written response to any requestor within five (5) business days. Conflicts reporting includes reporting obligations related to a PHS Conflict of Interest prior to NYU Langone Health’s expenditure of any funds for the project, reporting obligations related to PHS Conflict of Interest subsequent to the initial reporting (including annual FCOI reports) or for Page 6 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs PHS Conflict of Interest later disclosed or identified during a project, and reporting obligations related to a conflict mitigation plan or retrospective review. The CIMU, in collaboration with SPA and the principal investigator/project director of the applicable PHS Sponsored Project, is responsible for complying with any public access, reporting and/or other requirements required by the PHS Regulations arising from a finding of a PHS Conflict of Interest. The procedures governing NYU Langone Health’s review, evaluation, conflict management plans, retrospective reviews, mitigation reports, public access, and conflicts reporting for projects covered by the PHS Regulations are outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations. VIII.Sub recipientsInvestigators outside of the NYU Langone Community (e.g., sub grantees, sub contractors, collaborators or consultants) may also have Conflicts of Interest in a Sponsored Project. NYU Langone Health may subject any Investigators outside of the NYU Langone Community to the pertinent portions of this Policy and will subject such Investigator to this Policy when required by the Research Sponsor. In such cases, the outside Investigator’s institution must represent in writing that it has a written conflicts policy in effect that applies to its investigators, that the policy complies with all applicable Research Sponsor requirements, and that it will report applicable conflicts of interest to NYU Langone Health in the time period and including the disclosure requirements required by the Research Sponsor. If the institution cannot make this representation, the outside Investigator must agree to comply with this Policy, in which case NYU Langone Health’s Chief Scientific Officer shall have discretion to determine how this Policy should be implemented and/or adjusted for the specific Sponsored Project. Additional procedures governing NYU Langone Health’s use of Investigators outside of the NYU Langone Community in projects covered by the PHS Regulations are outlined in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations. IX.TrainingInvestigators involved in a Sponsored Project may be required by the CIMU and/or a Research Sponsor to periodically complete an appropriate conflict of interest training program prior to engaging in a Sponsored Project. For example, each Investigator participating in a PHS Sponsored Project must complete training regarding this Policy and the PHS Regulations prior to engaging in a PHS Sponsored Project, at least every four years thereafter, and as otherwise may be required by the CIMU. X.DefinitionsA. “Compelling Circumstances” means those facts that convince the Chief Scientific Officer and/orthe CIMU that an Investigator may participate in a Sponsored Project despite the existence of a Significant Financial Interest. Factors that may be evaluated by the CIMU in determining whether Compelling Circumstances are present are listed in NYU Langone Health’s Procedures on Research Conflict of Interest and Sponsored Programs. B. A “Conflict of Interest” exists in a Sponsored Project when NYU Langone Health’s designatedofficials reasonably determine that an Investigator’s Financial Interest could affect or be affected, or appear to affect or be affected, by the design, conduct or reporting of the Sponsored Project. C. A “Financial Interest” is held when an Investigator or a member of his or her Immediate Family hasa personal financial interest that reasonably appears to be related to the Investigator’s Institutional Responsibilities with NYU Langone Health and includes all personal financial interests in the Research Sponsor or in any other Financially Interested Company or (ii) has Intellectual Property Rights covering Page 7 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs products or processes being used in the Sponsored Project. Examples of Financial Interests are Management, Board, or Employment Position, Ownership Interests, Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travel, Royalty Income, and Intellectual Property Rights, where: (i) A “Management, Board, or Employment Position” means a position or appointment to serve, ineither a personal or representative capacity, as a director, trustee, partner, executive, manager, officer,employee, or equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, at any outside entity.(ii) “Ownership Interests” are equity interests held, either directly or indirectly, including stock andstock options (or entitlement to the same); of any amount in either a publicly traded or non publicly traded entity. (Exception: Mutual Funds Interests of any amount in diversified investment vehicles,such as broad based publicly traded, diversified mutual funds and exchange traded funds, as long asthe Investigator, or his or her Immediate Family members, collectively, do not have a or greaterdirect or indirect interest in the vehicle and do not have a Management, Board, or EmploymentPosition in the vehicle, are not Ownership Interests.)(iii) “Consulting Compensation” means salary, consulting fees, honoraria, paid authorship, lecture fees,other emoluments, stock, stock options, royalties or “in kind” compensation directly or indirectlyreceived from an entity (or entitlement to the same), whether in connection with a Management,Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, or service on a scientific advisory board,data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinical trial, executive committee for a clinicaltrial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any other purpose, that have been received in thepast calendar year or are expected to be received in the current or next calendar year.(iv) “Paid/Reimbursed Travel” means the occurrence and value of any paid/sponsored (i.e., sponsoredtravel is that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to the Investigator so thatthe exact monetary value may not be readily available), and/or reimbursed travel, whether inconnection with a Management, Board, or Employment Position or for consulting, lecturing, orservice on a scientific advisory board, data safety monitoring board, steering committee for a clinicaltrial, executive committee for a clinical trial, or other committee for an outside entity, or for any otherpurpose, that have been received in the past calendar year (i.e., no less than the past 12 months) orare expected to be received in the current or next calendar year.(v) “Royalty Income” means payments linked to product sales, or the written contractual right to receivefuture royalties, directly or indirectly, under an issued or pending patent, license or copyright, thathas been received in the past calendar year or is expected to be received in the current or next calendaryear. For the purpose of this Policy, Royalty Income includes all income received by an Investigatorfrom NYU in accordance with the NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statement ofPolicy on Intellectual Property.(vi) An “Intellectual Property Right” is an issued or pending patent, license or copyright coveringproducts or processes being used in the Sponsored Project and includes, for the purpose of this Policy,the right to income from NYU in connection with a patent, license or copyright held by or to be heldby NYU (for further information, see NYU’s intellectual property policies, including its Statementof Policy on Intellectual Property).The following are not Financial Interests under this Policy: (a) Salary from NYU Langone Health and cost related payments for services or reimbursementsfrom NYU Langone Health.(b) Payments to NYU Langone Health, or via NYU Langone Health to the Investigator, which are Page 8 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs directly related to the reasonable costs incurred in the conduct of a Sponsored Project or to the payment of indirect costs and are specified in a grant, agreement or contract between NYU Langone Health and the Research Sponsor. (c) Income or Paid/Reimbursed Travel from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by, and income from service on advisory committees or review panels for, a federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center or a research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education. D. “Financially Interested Company” means an outside entity which would reasonably appear to affect or be affected by the conduct or outcome of a Sponsored Project at NYU Langone Health. This term includes: (1) the manufacturer or distributor (including business partners and affiliates) of any drug or device or other product or process being used in the Sponsored Project and (2) any entity acting as the agent of the Research Sponsor or another Financially Interested Company (e.g., a contract research organization). The term also may include a company that provides direct and primary competition for the investigational product if the Investigator actually knows that the financial interests of the company would reasonably appear to affect or be affected by the Sponsored Project. E. “Human Subjects Research” means research involving an Investigator’s intervention or interaction with a living human individual or with an individual’s identifiable information at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health as defined by the IRB under its policies. F. “Immediate Family” means the person’s spouse, domestic partner, person in a civil union or similar relationship, dependent children, or other family members residing in the person’s household. G. “Institutional Responsibilities” means an Investigator’s professional responsibilities on behalf of NYU Langone Health, including research, research consultation, teaching, professional practice, institutional committee memberships, and service on panels such as institutional review boards or data and safety monitoring boards. H. “IRB” refers to NYU Langone Health’s Institutional Review Board and any other authorized Institutional Review Board for Human Subjects Research conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. I. An “Investigator” is any person in the NYU Langone Community, regardless of title or position, who is any of the following in connection with a Sponsored Project at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health: 1. Responsible for the designing, conducting or reporting of the Sponsored Project; 2. Proposing to be the principal investigator/program director, or key personnel in a grant application for the Sponsored Project submitted by NYU Langone Health; 3. Serving as the principal investigator/program director, co investigator, sub investigator, or key personnel on the Sponsored Project; or 4. Listed as an investigator or coordinator on an IRB application for the Sponsored Project. Investigator also includes outside persons (e.g., sub grantees, contractors, collaborators or consultants of NYU Langone Health) who are determined by NYU Langone Health, in consultation with the principal investigator/program director of the Sponsored Project, to be responsible for the design, conduct, or reporting of the Sponsored Project conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health. Section VIII of this Policy outlines the circumstances under which such outside Investigators will be required to comply with the pertinent portions of this Policy. Page 9 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs J.“Non Human Subjects Research” means any basic research, animal research, and other researchconducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health that is not Human Subjects Research, regardless of the source of funding. K. “NYU Langone Health” includes NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals(including all inpatient and ambulatory facilities), NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, and all entities that are controlled by any of them, except where specifically excluded. This Policy also has been adopted by the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone; therefore, for purposes of this Policy, “NYU Langone Health” also includes the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. L.“NYU Langone Community” means NYU Langone Health faculty, including adjunct, clinical,voluntary and visiting faculty; researchers, including persons participating in research at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health; employees; professional staff, including medical, dental and nursing staff; volunteers; fellows, trainees and post doctoral appointees; students; and consultants, vendors and contractors. M.“Office of Science & Research” means NYU Langone Health’s Office of Science & Research. Theoffices in the Office of Science & Research that may be responsible for the review and administration of a Sponsored Project proposal include the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration (SPA), the Clinical Research Support Unit (CRSU), the Office of Industrial Liaison (OIL), the Institutional Review Board (IRB), the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee (IACUC), and the Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC). N.“PHS” means the Public Health Service of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, andany components of the PHS to which the authority involved may be delegated, including the National Institutes of Health (NIH). See Section VII.A for a list of other PHS agencies. O.“PHS Regulations” means the regulations issued by the U.S. Department of Health and HumanServices (HHS) entitled “Responsibility of Applicants for Promoting Objectivity in Research for which PHS Funding is Sought and Responsible Prospective Contractors,” (see: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/coi/), as the same may be amended from time to time. P.“PHS Sponsored Projects” means Sponsored Projects subject to the PHS Regulations.Q.“Pre Clinical Research” means any Non Human Subjects Research which is reasonablyanticipated (1) to be a component of a submission to the FDA related to a product or process to be tested on human subjects (including an IND or IDE submission) or (2) to develop into research involving human subjects within the coming twelve (12) months. R.A “Research Sponsor” is any government agency (federal, state, or municipal), foundation, not for profit or for profit entity providing either monetary or material support for a Sponsored Project. S.“Significant Financial Interest” is defined as follows:(i) For a Human Subjects Research project, a Financial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” ifit is (a) any Management, Board, or Employment Position (including as a director, trustee, partner,senior executive, officer or employee); (b) Ownership Interests (including stocks, options andwarrants) of greater than $10,000 in a publicly held company; (c) Ownership Interests of any amountin a privately held company; (d) Consulting Compensation (including salary, consulting income andhonoraria), Paid/Reimbursed Travel for personal benefit as determined by the CIMU (e.g., a gift or atrip whose primary purpose is pleasure or celebration), and Royalty Income, when aggregated, ofgreater than $25,000 in any relevant year; or (e) any Intellectual Property Right being tested,developed, or validated in the Human Subjects Research.Page 10 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs (ii) For a Pre Clinical Research project, a Financial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” if it is(a) any Management, Board, or Employment; (b) Ownership Interests of greater than $10,000 in apublicly held company; (c) Ownership Interest of any amount in a privately held company; or (d)Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travel for personal benefit as determined by the CIMU,and Royalty Income, when aggregated, of greater than $25,000 in any relevant year.(iii) For all Non Human Subjects Research (other than Pre Clinical Research) or Sponsored Programs, aFinancial Interest is a “Significant Financial Interest” if it is (a) any Outside Position; (b)Ownership Interests of greater than $25,000 in a publicly held company; (c) Ownership Interests ofany amount in a privately held company, or (d) Consulting Compensation, Paid/Reimbursed Travelfor personal benefit as determined by the CIMU, and Royalty Income, when aggregated, of greaterthan $40,000 in any relevant year.(iv) “PHS Significant Financial Interest” means:(a) A financial interest consisting of one or more of the following interests of the Investigator(and those of the Investigator's spouse and dependent children) that reasonably appears to berelated to the Investigator's Institutional Responsibilities:(1) With regard to any publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interest exists ifthe value of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve months preceding thedisclosure and the value of any equity interest in the entity as of the date of disclosure,when aggregated, exceeds $5,000. For purposes of this definition, remuneration includessalary and any payment for services not otherwise identified as salary (e.g., consulting fees,honoraria, paid authorship); equity interest includes any stock, stock option, or otherownership interest, as determined through reference to public prices or other reasonablemeasures of fair market value;(2) With regard to any non publicly traded entity, a PHS Significant Financial Interestexists if the value of any remuneration received from the entity in the twelve monthspreceding the disclosure, when aggregated, exceeds $5,000, or when the Investigator (orthe Investigator's spouse or dependent children) holds any equity interest (e.g., stock, stockoption, or other ownership interest); or(3) Intellectual property rights and interests (e.g., patents, copyrights), upon receipt ofincome related to such rights and interests; or(b) The occurrence in the twelve (12) months preceding the disclosure of any reimbursed orsponsored travel ( i.e., that which is paid on behalf of the Investigator and not reimbursed to theInvestigator so that the exact monetary value may not be readily available), related to theirInstitutional Responsibilities; provided, however, that this does not apply to travel that isreimbursed or sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency, an institution of highereducation as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), an academic teaching hospital, a medical center, ora research institute that is affiliated with an institution of higher education.(v) The following are not PHS Significant Financial Interests under this Policy:(a) salary, royalties, or other remuneration paid by New York University or NYU LangoneHealth to the Investigator if the Investigator is currently employed or otherwise appointed byNew York University or NYU Langone Health, including intellectual property rights assignedto New York University or NYU Langone Health and agreements to share in royalties relatedPage 11 of 12 Policy on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Other Sponsored Programs to such rights; (b) income from investment vehicles, such as mutual funds and retirement accounts, as long asthe Investigator does not directly control the investment decisions made in these vehicles;(c) income from seminars, lectures, or teaching engagements sponsored by a Federal, state, orlocal government agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), anacademic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with aninstitution of higher education; and(d) income from service on advisory committees or review panels for a Federal, state, or localgovernment agency, an institution of higher education as defined at 20 U.S.C. 1001(a), anacademic teaching hospital, a medical center, or a research institute that is affiliated with aninstitution of higher education.See Procedures on Conflicts of Interest in Research and Sponsored Programs covered by the PHS Regulations of this document. T. “Sponsored Program” means any activity conducted at or under the auspices of NYU Langone Health that receives funding from outside NYU