Alarms (Dual Assignment House Electricians)  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Plumbing Shop is Primary) o Plumbing Shop  All Sump Pit Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Pump Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers: Secondary)  All Medical Air System Alarms o House Electricians  All Generator Related Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Fuel Oil System Alarms (Dual Assignment Building Engineers)  All Power Related Alarms o Refrigeration Shop  All DX AC/AHU related Alarms, including DX FCU’s  All Walk In Box Alarms  Refrigeration system cooling towers o Note: The term “dual assignment” means two (2) “shops” are assigned to these alarms. Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) and Nursing • The BMS shall automatically generate alarms, via e mail to IPC and Nursing based on operating room humidity levels and pressurization level. E mail addresses shall be provided by the Facility Management Team. • Operating Room Humidity Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a humidity level either below RH or above RH, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. o If the humidity level continues to remain either below RH or above RH for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an email alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Operating Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Operating Room) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. Note: Entrance door must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. • Protective Environment Room Pressurization Alarms (Typical per Isolation Room, Central Sterilizer, Bone Marrow, Air Locks, Vestibules, BSL3 Labs, etc.) o On sensing a neutral or negative pressurization level, the system shall annunciate an alarm at the operator workstation. The respective NYULH shop will be required to respond within 30 minutes. Note: Each door serving the NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 542 2023 room must be closed for a minimum of 2 minutes prior to issuing alarm. Alarm to be disabled if door is open. o If the pressurization level continues to remain neutral or negative for an additional 30 minutes (i.e., a total of 60 minutes from original alarm), an e mail alarm shall be automatically sent to IPC and Nursing. ii. Trends General Requirements: • Trends shall be established for each hardwired and software generated point associated with a system. For each project, trends shall be identified as critical or non critical trends by the Facility Management Team. Trend Point Collection: • Each trended point shall be supported by collection point hardware capable of storing a minimum quantity of trend samples for each point before any samples are overwritten. Where controllers do not have this capability due to either the number of trended points or inability to store trends, provide additional controllers to provide the required trend storage and memory capabilities. The quantity of samples differs between critical and non critical trend points. o Critical Trend Samples: 9.984 o Non Critical Trend Samples: 1,000 • Transmission between the point of collection device (DDC controller) and the trend storage device is critical. Each trend shall have its buffer size (the value at which the controllers sends its stored trend data to the collection software) set to a value equal to the smaller of either four (4) times the trend rate (i.e., the amount of samples per hour) or a maximum quantity of samples which. Under no circumstances shall the buffer value be set to more than the maximum quantity of samples. The maximum quantity of samples differs between critical and non critical trend points. • Critical Trend Samples: 900 • Non Critical Trend Samples: 250 • Each time the buffer reaches its sample limit, the entire volume of software samples stored in the controller shall be sent. The collection software shall review the data and eliminate duplicate values (i.e., previous values already sent which have been successfully received at the collection software). • Critical trends shall have a software routine included (separate from the “standard” trending software) that regularly monitors the trend data and alerts the user when expected trend data has not been received. For each trend, provide a software routine that shall monitor the last received trend point’s time stamp and identify when it has “aged” sufficiently to generate an alarm. Aging limit shall be exceeded when the last data point in the trend has a time stamp which is greater than two (2) times the value of the buffer size divided by the trend rate. This software routine cannot reside in the DDC controller which is the collection device for this data set. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 543 2023 Analog Trend Points: • The following analog type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval or change of value passed a percentage of the sensor’s maximum value: o Space temperature (10 minutes as standard)  Non critical space: 5 minute interval as standard  Critical space: Change of value every 1 °F or 0.5°C o Space differential pressure (60 seconds as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint (e.g. record COV every 0.05 in. change of a space with a 1 in. setpoint) o Air handling unit supply, return, mixed air and preheat coil discharge air temperature (10 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint o Air handling unit supply and return air humidity (10 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of maximum value (rh) o Air handling unit supply, return and outdoor airflow rates (10 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint o Duct static pressures (3 minutes as standard)  Change of value every % of setpoint o Water temperatures (5 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint o Water systems differential pressure (5 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint o Water flow rates (10 minutes as standard)  Change of value every of setpoint o Btu meters (105 minutes as standard) o Set points, associated process variables and control signals (Note: sample rate based on variables listed above) o UPS voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o PDU voltage per phase, current per phase, kW input and kW output o Distribution board voltage per phase, current per phase, kW output Digital Trend Points: • The following digital type points shall be trended based on an adjustable time interval: o Run status (e.g., pump, fan, air conditioning unit, chiller, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Safety device (e.g., pressure switch, freezestat, leak detector, etc.) (10 minutes as standard) o Dry contact input from third party equipment such as packaged air conditioning unit common alarm contact (10 minutes as standard) o Door contact associated with room pressure monitors (10 minutes as standard) NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 544 2023 Controller Data Trend Points: • The following status/data points shall be trended based on change of state: o Controller online/offline status o Controller reboot iii. Instrumentation a. Actuator Engineering Valve Actuators • Hydronic control valve actuators shall be sized to close against a differential pressure equal to the design pump head plus . • Actuators shall be sized based on valve operating torque values and safety factors stated by the valve manufacturer as well as the maximum torque developed during the stroke of the valve when operating under maximum working conditions. Actuators shall be of sufficient torque to smoothly position valve disk to maintain specified leakage classification. Louvered Damper Actuators • Actuator mounting arrangement shall be outside the airstream. • Wherever possible, actuators shall be direct coupled type, which require no crank arm and linkage, and shall be capable of direct mounting to a jackshaft. In applications where it is not feasible to direct mount couple actuators to damper shaft or jackshaft, provide a substantial (strong) linkage between the actuator and damper. • Actuator linkage arrangement shall be such as to permit normally open or normally closed positions of the dampers as required. • Temperature Instruments • Temperature Sensor & Transmitter Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 545 2023 b. Control Valve Engineering • Control valves shall be sized using the following basic formulas: c. Temperature Sensor Engineering • Each individual coil section shall be provided with individual temperature sensors. • Where multiple sensors are required for a single coil section, a DDC software program shall “average” the multiple sensors. • Manufacturer’s standard thermistor temperature sensing elements are only acceptable for use serving space temperature monitoring of VAV terminal units. • The use of thermistors shall not be acceptable for other air and water applications. iv. Networks a. RS 485 Networks • Communication loops shall always be daisy chained in a line topology and shall not be T tapped or spliced in anyway • Unique MAC address and Device ID for each controller on the network. • A repeater after every 31 devices or after 2000 feet (whichever is reached first), and at each brand of a network comprised of multiple manufacturers/product types NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 546 2023 • Have one of the following in order to prevent signal distortions due to echoing and add bias: o A BT485 biasing terminator at each end (unless the segment is less than 10 feet long) o A ½ watt, 120 ohm terminator at each end v. Network Hierarchy General • The system architecture shall consist of a network of independent, stand alone direct BACnet I/P based digital control units and BACnet MSTP unitary controllers communicating over a two tier local area network. Each control unit shall perform all specified control functions independently, including scheduling, alarming and storage of trend data. Failure of one (1) control unit shall have no effect upon any other unit in the network. • Each direct digital control unit shall communicate with each other and with the existing servers. The DDC units, servers and workstations shall interface to the main communication network via multiple multi port managed communication switches. • To minimize network traffic and promote network health, point mapping shall be conducted as follows: o All direct mapping of networked points shall be through a main control router/global controller. Examples: o LGR (ALC) o ASP (Schneider) o VLX/BCM (Alerton) o Direct peer to peer point mapping from controller to controller shall only be accepted if:  Controllers are on the same network bus.  No control router is present between controllers. o Outside Air point mapping: The outside air network points shall be pushed out (broadcast out) to all controllers with programming referencing these points. Locally Separated BMS Local Area Network (LAN) • BMS network shall be independent and isolated from MCIT WAN with one physical connection via CAT6/Ethernet. This connection will between an approved NYULH BMS LAN switch and MCIT switch. • Critical campus network topology shall be utilized for hospital infrastructure and Article 28 compliance spaces (e.g. operating, procedure, vivarium, Bio Safety Labs). This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • Midsize campus network topology shall be utilized for clinical practice and laboratory infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 547 2023 • General campus network topology shall be utilized for office and residential infrastructure. This network configuration is designed using three tier hierarchical network topology. • Approved NYULH core, distribution and access switch shall only be used. All switches shall have of their ports unused at the completion of the project. For an interim measure in the event of network switch failure, an approved unmanaged switch shall be installed until faulty switch is in kind replaced by the BMS vendor. BMS network architecture and connection to MCIT shall be approved by the Facilities Management Team before procurement. See "Existing System Architecture Diagrams" section in References for topology diagrams referenced above. vi. Network Protocols • Communication protocol between servers, workstations, DDC and unitary controllers shall utilize ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet. No manufacturer variations to ASHRAE Standard 135 BACnet published communication protocol standards and rules will be accepted. Each BACnet communication alarm and subscription services shall be configured as Confirmed service or Unicast transmission. • For MS/TP communication efficiency, the following requirement must be adhered to: o All Devices must have a unique MAC ID and Device Instance. o All Software device instance are unique on the entire network. o Baud Rate must be the same of all devices including repeaters for given MS/TP trunk. o COV (Change of Value) Increment shall be set on ALL Analog Input and Value parameters with a number no less than 1. o Max Master on ALL Global Controllers shall be set according to Highest Node on MS/TP network trunk + 3. o EOL (End of Line) terminators shall be places on each end of a MS/TP trunk. Terminators resistance shall be determined by the BMS vendor recommended standard. No intermediate device shall have an EOL. o Voltage Polarity of RS 485 communication cable shall confirmed before adding additional controllers/devices. o MS/TP total length of twisted pair communication cable shall be less than 4000 ft. with 18 AWG, less than 2000 ft. with 22 AWG o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as 24 VAC power o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run in the same conduit as conductors driven by Binary Outputs. o MS/TP communication cable shall NOT be run near electrical motors and only inside VFD plastic enclosures o Separate MS/TP communication loops shall be utilized for different equipment manufacturers. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 548 2023 vii. Integrations General • OEM equipment identified below shall be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP; however, the BMS is capable of communicating via other industry standard protocols such as Modbus. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the equipment, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. o Equipment provider will be responsible for equipment start up and to verify that communication to BMS is established and functional. The BATC Contractor must participate with the start up to ensure proper communications. o On completion of the interface, the interface shall be demonstrated to the NYULH Facility Management Team and issues identified after start up demonstration will require corrective action by the responsible party. Equipment • At a minimum, the following equipment shall be interfaced with the BMS: o Electric meters o Variable frequency drives o Packaged air conditioning units o Chillers o Room pressure monitors Metering • Metering shall be provided at the service entrance of each utility to each building. • Hard Wired Interface: o Mass flow (all non electric meters) o BTU (energy meters only) • Utility meters shall only use Modbus TCP protocol for integration. • Utility Metering will be Bi Directional meters and shall be set up with positive values for exporting, and negative values for importing. o At Manhattan Main campus the meter data shall be pulled into Blue Pillar system. • Meters shall be integrated to the BMS when utilized for control, regardless of whether or not hard wired I/O data points are provided. • Meters shall also be integrated to third party data acquisition platforms as required. • Projects shall provide building level submetering for steam, chilled water, natural gas and electricity. Chilled water submetering should be provided at each chiller. Specialty medical / lab equipment requiring chilled water shall be metered separately per manufacturer’s recommendations. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 549 2023 Variable Frequency Drive Interface • Furnish and install a communication interface between each fan and pump variable frequency drive and the direct digital control system. Preferred communication protocol shall be BACnet. BATC Contractor shall be responsible for coordinating with the VFD manufacturer for communication protocol requirements per equipment per project. Interface shall allow for simultaneous two way communications between the VFD and BMS. This functionality shall allow an operator to remotely monitor and adjust all variables via the BMS operator workstation. • Hard wired Interface: Fans (Air Handling Systems, Heating and Ventilation Units, Exhaust Fans and Cooling Tower Fans) o Start/stop o Speed control o Safety shutdown (i.e., pressure switch and low temperature thermostat) o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic o Note: Fan run status shall be monitored via current sensing relay, provided and installed by BATC Contractor. • Hard wired Interface: Pumps o Start/stop o Speed control o Common malfunction alarm o Drive not in Automatic • Communication Interface. The following input points shall be monitored via the BMS: o Speed feedback o Output frequency o Current (amps) o % torque o Power (kW) o Kilowatt hours o Operating hours o Drive temperature o All diagnostic warning and fault information o Remote fault reset o Keypad “Hand” or “Auto” selected o Bypass selected o Motor running in bypass mode o Motor running in inverter mode o Note: The BMS shall monitor the Auto position of the VFD serving the fan via the communication interface specified herein. On receiving indication that the fan is not operating in “Auto”, an alarm shall be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 550 2023 Packaged Air Conditioning Units • Packaged air conditioning units to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the units. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the unit, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Chillers • Chillers to be provided with communication interface option. Preferred communication protocol is BACnet MS/TP. BATC Contractor is responsible for verifying the protocol provided with the chiller. o If a field server or gateway is required to communicate between the BMS and the chiller, it must be approved in writing by the NYULH Facility Management Team prior to implementation. Room Pressure Monitors • Room pressure monitors to be provided with BACnet MS/TP communication interface option. viii. Power a. Emergency Power • All controllers shall be powered by emergency/standby powered circuits, regardless if the equipment being controlled (e.g. AHU, Chiller, etc.) is on emergency power. • If emergency power is not available or perceived as not available, notify the NYULH facility management team that emergency/standby power is not available for controller use and NYULH staff will provide direction. • Any DDC controller that’s powered with Emergency Power shall be connected to a UPS power source. This includes Terminal units for Critical Spaces. b. Terminal Unit Controller Power For VAVs, CAVs, Fan Powered VAVs, and Flow Tracking: • Power to terminal unit controls shall be 120VAC with enclosure mounted 24VAC step down transformer, fuse and disconnect switch. For Fan Coil Units: • Power to fan coil unit controls shall use a line voltage to 24VAC step down transformer, fuse, and disconnect switch. • Control power shall come from the line side of the fan coil unit power (upstream of the disconnect), to prevent communication loss when the fan coil unit is shut down for maintenance. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 551 2023 ix. Naming a. Point Naming • All point naming conventions shall be reviewed and accepted by the Facilities Management Team prior to being implemented. • Each point name shall consist of the following components: o First two or three letter prefix = building identification.  Controls contractor shall confirm with the Facilities Management Team that the building prefix is unique and the convention does not already exist. o The next two or three letter or numerals = Equipment Identification o The last two or three letters = Device identification o Example: KP_HX1_SWT or KPHX1SWT = Kimmel Pavilion_Heat Exchanger 1_Supply Water Temperature b. Controller Addressing • All IP addresses are to be provided by MCIT and the Facilities Management Team once the necessary IT infrastructure is in place. o In the event of new building construction this infrastructure will not be in place until the building is near completion. • BACnet device addressing is to be managed by the BATC Contractor and should be within the vendor’s assigned address range as follows: o Alerton:  500 999  100000 199999 o Automated Logic:  300000 399999 o Facilities Management Team and the Senior Controls Specialists are to provide BACnet device addresses for devices outside of the assigned vendor address ranges. o Facilities Management Team and Senior Controls Specialists must be provided with any necessary tools and software to change the BACnet device address on any devices installed. x. Hardware Interlocks a. Safety Circuit Engineering • Safety devices (i.e., low temperature detectors, high pressure switches, low pressure switches, life safety shutdown relay contacts) shall be wired to starters and/or VFD’s such that equipment will stop regardless if operating in hand, automatic, manual, or bypass. • All safeties serving a variable frequency drive or starter (i.e., low temperature thermostat, fire shutdown contact, pressure switch, end switch, etc.,) must be wired to a terminal strip outside of the VFD/starter, in a standard, labeled NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 552 2023 enclosure where voltage readings can be taken to facilitate troubleshooting. Each safety should be wired to an individual pair of terminals and labeled as to what safety it is. In addition, all safeties must have individual auxiliary contact wired to the BMS for alarm monitoring. In lieu of a separate enclosure, it is acceptable to utilize the DDC field equipment panel. • All systems requiring interlock wiring shall be hardwired interlocked and shall not rely on the BMS to operate. Interlock wiring shall be run in separate conduits from BMS associated wiring. Examples: o Emergency generator to fuel oil pump interlock, emergency generator damper interlock, etc. o Motorized damper interlock to fan starter. b. Humidifier Valve Lockout • The humidifier valve shall be prevented from opening via a hardwired interlock with a current sensing relay used to monitor fan run status. • The current sensing relay shall be wired to a double pole, double throw relay. One normally open pole shall be wired as an input to the DDC unit for fan run status. The other normally open pole shall be wired in series with the control signal to the humidifier valve such that when the fan is off, the humidifier valve shall be “hardwired” closed. • Upon a fan trip, the humidifier valves shall immediately fail in the closed position. c. High Discharge Pressure Switches and Low Suction Pressure Switches • Pressure differential switches installed in the discharge of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan, which sense discharge pressure, shall stop the fan and transmit an alarm to the operator workstation if the pressure set point of the switch is exceeded. • A separate pressure switch installed in the inlet of each supply, return and/or exhaust fan shall also stop the fan and transmit the alarm if fan suction pressure is below its set point. • Pressure switches shall be automatic reset type. • The fan shutdown shall be operative whether the variable frequency drive Hand Off Inverter Bypass switch is in the Inverter, Bypass or Hand position. • Individual alarms (high and low) will be activated at the workstation. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 553 2023 d. Low Temperature Switches Low temperature switches (freezestats), one (1) for each cooling coil section, shall follow the following sequence: • Pre time delay timeout: o Any freezestat installed on the inlet of the cooling coil shall initiate a safety shutdown sequence upon sensing a temperature below the low limit setting of 35°F, locally adjustable at each freezestat. o Each normally closed freezestat shall have a unique input and identifier. o Any freezestat trip shall activate a time delay relay. o Upon activation of the freezestat switch status input, the following shall occur (before time delay timeout):  The unique freezestat switch status input will be ON.  The time delay relay will initiate the elapsed time countdown  A pre alarm condition indicator shall activate at the BMS graphics containing the unique freezestat identifier  Preheat low limit setpoint will raise 10°F (adjustable)  CHW control valve will open to at least (if it isn’t already greater than open) • Post time delay timeout: o Upon activation of any freezestat switch status input for a continuous elapsed time of 30 seconds via the adjustable time delay relay, the following shall occur:  The supply fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The return fan VFD(s) shall shut off via hardwired interlock to the VFD safety shutdown circuit.  The chilled water valve shall open to  The preheat valves shall control to a preheat discharge temperature setpoint of 95°F (adjustable)  A five star alarm must be generated each time a freezestat time delay relay activates.  Each time delay relay shall have an independent five star alarm.  After the freezestat switch status turns off, the five star critical alarm can be manually set to OFF via the BMS. Once the alarm is off and the unit can be manually restarted via the BMS.  The outside air intake damper(s) shall close  The supply fan discharge damper(s) shall close e. Leak Detection • On trigger of a leak alarm, associated cooling isolation and control valves shall shut while associated fans are allowed to operate. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 554 2023 f. Controller Reboot or Return from Power Failure • On controller reboot or return from power failure, all control loop outputs shall be commanded to their position prior to reboot or power failure and all control loop integrals shall be zeroed, thus eliminating reset windup. xi. HMI/Graphics General Requirements: • Dynamic graphics shall be created for each system interfaced with the building management system. Systems include, but are not limited to, air handling units, air conditioning units, heating and ventilation units, exhaust fans, pumps, chillers, heat exchangers, plumbing systems, electrical systems, etc. • Summary graphics shall be created for systems as described herein. Summary graphics shall be updated, on a per project basis, as modifications are made to each respective system. The summary graphics are intended to be live documents that continue to evolve as various systems are added, removed and/or modified. • Where air handling or water systems serve areas other than Mechanical Equipment Rooms, provide dynamic color floor plan displays indicating the area served. The displays shall include all physical and virtual points associated with the respective system. • The graphical interface shall allow users to access system schematics, floor plans, summary graphics, “as built” documentation, operation and maintenance manuals via a hierarchal graphical penetration scheme and menu selection. • Colors shall be used to indicate the status of points (e.g., RED = alarm, GREEN = normal) and these colors shall change as the status of the equipment changes. Provide a software program that shall notify the operator that a point has been placed in operator override. Notification shall be identified on the respective system graphic. • Dynamic temperature values, humidity values, flow values and status indication shall automatically update to represent current conditions without operator intervention and without predefined screen refresh rates. • All values displayed on the graphics shall include appropriate engineering units. • Values/icons for points which are placed in an override or locked state by an operator command shall clearly be identified and displayed in a manner that the operator can identify these locked points. • Performance overviews shall be provided for each building totaling its actual energy usage with a detailed comparison to its expected usage, on a month by month basis, as well as an annual basis. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 555 2023 Sitewide Main Page shall contain the following: • Site map with links to each individual building. • Link to each campus summary graphic. • Common Critical Data: o Outdoor air temperature o Outdoor air humidity o Outdoor air CO2 o Outdoor air enthalpy o Outdoor air dewpoint. Individual Building Main Page: • Graphics should be organized by building and floor with links to all the equipment that serves that floor on the graphics link. • Building Operator Links (the following are examples from the NYULH Main Campus): o Tisch Hospital  Ancillary  Millhauser o Alumni Hall o Medical Science Building Berg o Coles Student Laboratory o Schwartz Lecture Hall o Skirball Institute o Smilow Research Center o Schwartz Health Care Center (HCC) o 660 First Avenue o Energy Building o Greenberg Hall o Kimmel Pavilion o Science Building • Each building shall be presented with an individual main page. The main page shall consist of the following: o Link to the sitewide main page o Link to each respective floor plan of the building o Link to building summary graphics for each of the following systems:  Condenser water system and all connected equipment (i.e., packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Chilled water system and all connected equipment (i.e., air handling units, packaged air conditioning units, Cold Rooms, freezers, etc.), regardless of whether the equipment is interfaced with the BMS or not (single line format).  Air handling unit relevant data such as run status, supply temperature, static pressure, and active alarm (tabular format). NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 556 2023  Supply, return and exhaust duct distribution and all connected equipment (single line format).  VAV box relevant data such as temperature set point, actual temperature and list of rooms served. (Tabular Format).  Electrical distribution system, inclusive of all electrical status, alarm and metering points (single line format).  Environmental boxes, refrigerators and freezers (tabular format).  Instrument air systems pressure readings, interconnections, risers, branch piping, isolation valves.  Communication network indicating all controllers, wiring configurations, controller addresses, controller location. Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, VAV summary graphic should contain the AHU and reheat water system links. o Links to each system group. Groups are defined as follows:  Air handling units  Air conditioning units  Exhaust fans  Chilled water system  Condenser water system  Hot water system  Secondary water systems  Process cooling systems  Domestic water  Medical air systems  Operating Rooms  Environmental boxes  Generators  UPS systems  Automatic transfer systems  Double ended substations o Individual links to each piece of equipment and/or system within each group. All graphics must show the name of the system and its service area. All systems that serve the system illustrated on the graphic, must be identified and linked to. For example, if a fan system provides the outside air delivered to a fan coil unit, the fan system tag must be identified at the outdoor air intake on the graphic. If a system serves VAV boxes, this must be indicated on the system graphic with a link to the VAV boxes provided. o Refer to the Reference Section for sample graphic indicating a typical floor plan. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 557 2023 Location Summary Graphics: • Graphics shall include the following: o Steam system (displayed in a single line format) o Chilled water system (displayed in a single line format) o Electric distribution systems (displayed in a single line format) o Pneumatic air systems (displayed in a single line format) o Domestic water system single line riser diagram showing domestic water meter POE, pumping system, water tower, domestic hot water systems and other water users. o Medical air system per building o Operating Rooms (tabular format) o Energy metering (tabular format) o Air handlers/exhaust fans by building and floor location o Reheat/perimeter/secondary water by system by building and floor location (displayed in a "single line" format) o Generators by building (tabular format) o FCU's by building and floor (tabular format) o Walk in boxes, environmental boxes, hot rooms (tabular format) o ATS (tabular format) o UPS (tabular format) o Sump/ejector pumps (tabular format) o Critical Labs (Berg/Smilow ABSL 3 temps, pressures) o Refrigeration cooling towers (displayed in a "single line" format) o Control air plants (displayed in a "single line" format) o Steam PRV’s and perimeter steam control valves (tabular format) o Sump/ejector/condensate pump (tabular format) o Animal holding rooms (tabular format) o Fire systems, preactions (tabular format) o Decontamination showers (tabular format) o Room pressure monitoring (tabular format) o Domestic water, water heaters, booster pumps, house tanks (tabular format) o Communication network indicating workstations, servers, network switches and primary controllers with respective locations and wiring configurations.  Note: This is not a dynamic graphic. Intent is for a static graphic indicating “as built” for BMS communication network. • Wherever possible, summary graphics shall include links to systems illustrated on the respective summary graphic as well as other systems associated with the system depicted. For example, chilled water system summary graphic should contain links to each chilled water system. • Campus summary graphics shall be a compiled building system overviews. The campus single lines will be the summation of the building single line drawings. All systems should be grouped together with similar systems in a building. If there are no other similar systems in the building a new overview shall be started for that system with LED alarm bringing you to that page in the event of a critical alarm. NO GRAPHICS SHALL BE GROUPED OR LABELED “miscellaneous”. NYU Langone Health Design Guidelines BUILDING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Real Estate Development and Facilities 558 2023 • Summary graphics shall be updated as the systems they represent are modified. Floor Plans: • Floor plans shall display air and piping distribution systems in single line format. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment located on the floor (i.e., exhaust fans, air conditioning units, VAV boxes, environmental boxes, etc.) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall indicate location of all equipment that is not located on the floor, but serves the floor (i.e., air handling units, exhaust fans and water systems) as well as links to respective individual equipment graphics. Equipment locations shall be as installed locations. • Floor plans shall show dynamic variable monitoring space conditions (i.e., temperature, humidity, CO2, room