A PATIENT GUIDE TO Gamma KnifeRadiosurgeryDepartments of Neurosurgery and Radiation OncologyGamma Knife® radiosurgery is the most established form of stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), an important approach for treating brain tumors, blood vessel malformations, and other brain disorders. With this approach, the skull is not opened and no incision is needed; instead, it uses MRI or other high resolution imaging to make a 3D picture of the targeted part of the brain. Then, the area is treated with many small beams of radiation, delivered with robotic precision, instead of a scalpel. Gamma Knife® has been considered the gold standard for radiosurgery, since it is used for the brain only, and has no moving parts to deliver the radiation. It has the longest track record in treating these conditions with published validation, and is the most accurate type of brain radiosurgery. We believe that the Gamma Knife® procedure’s use of a head frame is one of the key reasons for its excellent long term results, since it most precisely irradiates the target tissue. We take care to keep patients safe and comfortable throughout the procedure, moving them in and out of the radiation unit, and focusing on the targeted area. In selected patients, a head mask is used instead of a head frame for fixation.The Gamma Knife ICONTMThe Gamma Knife® system installed at the Center for Advanced Radio surgery has advanced patient treatment and safety features. All mem bers of our staff have extensive training and experience. The team at NYU Langone Medical Center can non invasively treat multiple brain le sions at the same time—in one procedure done in one day. It is the most efficient system available.Gamma Knife® HistoryWhen the Gamma Knife® was first introduced in the United States in 1987, there were only five such units in the world. Dr. Douglas Kondzi olka worked with that unit beginning in 1989. In 1997, Drs. John Golfinos and Bernardine Donahue established the first Gamma Knife center in the New York metropolitan area at NYU Langone. In 2012, Dr. Kondziolka, director of the Center for Advanced Radiosurgery and one of the most published researchers in the field, joined the NYU Langone team, and he has participated in refining the Gamma Knife’s® design. In 2016, NYU Langone became the first center in the region to have the Icon Unit.Patient Benefits: Safety and EffectivenessGamma Knife® radiosurgery is a non invasive type of brain surgery (done without opening the skull). It allows affected tissue to be targeted with great precision while sparing healthy tissue around the treatment area. Since a surgical incision is not needed, the risks associated with open brain surgery are reduced. Patients are typically sedated without general anesthesia and can communicate during treatment. As a result, patients who undergo Gamma Knife radiosurgery are less likely to have complications, and tend to report back with positive outcomes.Because radiosurgery is less invasive, it typically leaves no scar. While patients must come in early to register at the hospital, most are finished in time for lunch. Although individual patient outcomes may vary, patients can often resume their normal activities the day after treatment. In contrast, open brain surgery typically requires a hospital stay of several days or more. By avoiding this hospital stay, radiosurgery helps lower treatment costs. Before TreatmentYour doctor will explain the Gamma Knife® radiosurgery procedure to you, discuss other treatment options and their associated risks, and give you the chance to ask any questions that you might have. Once you have decided on radiosurgery, you will be asked to sign a consent form to do the procedure. Please read this form carefully and ask questions if something is not clear. You will be asked to avoid eating or drinking for eight (8) hours before the proce dure, starting after midnight. Depending on your wishes, you may also receive a sedative before the procedure to help you relax.Attaching the Head FrameThe head frame acts as a “guiding device” to ensure that the Gamma Knife® beams are focused exactly where treatment is needed. This way, the target is kept still during both imaging and treatment. Radiosurgery depends on highly accurate images, and total head immobilization in a frame gives the clearest images. The aluminum frame will be attached to your head using four pins, two in the front and two in the back. These pin sites will be cleaned, and you will receive four small injections of local anesthetic to numb the sites. Plastic ear bars will temporarily be placed in each ear to balance the frame while it is being attached. Once applied, the frame feels tight for just a minute or two, then will be comfortable. If a mask is used for head fixation, it will be made for you the morning of the procedure.Imaging and PlanningAfter the head frame is in place, you will un dergo an MRI, CT scan, or angiogram, de pending on your diagnosis. These radiology scans are obtained to precisely locate the size, shape, and location of your tumor, le sion, or abnormality. An indicator box will be attached to the head frame. Once the imag ing studies are completed, you can relax while your neurosurgeon, radiation oncologist, and physicist use the information from the im ages to plan your treatment. This is usually the longest phase of the procedure, and may take from 15 minutes to several hours.TreatmentOnce the treatment plan is final, you will be brought into the Gamma Knife® treatment room. You will be moved onto the couch and your head frame attached comfortably to the table. You will then enter the domed section of the unit, where your treatment will begin. The computerized delivery system sends the planned radiation di rectly and precisely to the areas of concern us ing robotic precision. This treatment is silent and totally painless. Often, you can listen to music of your choice during the treatment. Treatment time will vary from patient to patient, depending on the size and number of areas to be treated. It can be as short as 15 minutes, or as long as two to three hours.After TreatmentWhen the radiosurgery is completed, the head frame will be removed and the pin sites cleaned and covered with bandages. If a pin site continues to bleed, a small stitch may be used. You may also be given Decadron (dexamethasone), a medication to prevent swelling at the target area. Almost all patients are sent home the same day soon after the procedure. Some may be transferred to our hospital unit, where you will be mon itored overnight and discharged the following morning. Before you leave the hospital, a nurse will review your discharge instructions with you, including permitted activity, medication, pin site care, and, most impor tantly, follow up care. In the months that follow, a fol low up program will be created just for you that may include office visits, imaging studies, or other tests. For patients who live a significant distance from New York, we will work closely with your chosen doctors at home.Patient SelectionThe selection of patients who are the best candidates for Gamma Knife® radiosurgery involves a team of neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists, and other specialists. Selection for Gamma Knife® radio surgery is made based on diagnos tic testing, tissue diagnosis, your age, the size and location of each tumor or lesion, the number of le sions or tumors present, prior ther apy, and, of course, your own goals.Brain Metastases (Metastatic Brain Tumors)The most common type of brain tumors are brain metastases that develop outside of the original site of the cancer. Brain metastases can result from many different kinds of cancer, including lung, breast, melanoma, colon, and kidney cancer. Treatment options include surgical resection, Gamma Knife® radiosurgery, and external beam radiation therapy. Gamma Knife® radiosurgery is preferred for patients with smaller tumors and without major symptoms. It can also be used in patients with more than one tumor. Our neurosurgeons, who have published extensively on brain metastasis management, work closely with our oncologists and radiation oncologists to care for patients with brain metastases. We have cared for more than 5,000 patients with these tumors, and have found that Gamma Knife® radiosurgery can control tumors in 80 95 percent of patients. We can treat multiple tumors at the same time, and if new tumors develop in other locations, these can usually be treated as well. Though whole brain radiation is used less often today, it can still be useful for some patients.Dose plan for a brain metastasisAcoustic Neuromas (Vestibular Schwannomas)Acoustic neuromas are benign tumors near the skull base that involve the nerves responsible for facial movement, hearing, and balance. Sometimes known as vestibular schwannomas, they grow from the vestibular nerve, which controls balance, and spread out into the auditory canal, through which the cranial nerves exit the skull. Common symptoms of acoustic neuromas include hearing loss usually the first symptom as well as tinnitus (ringing in the ear), balance problems, and facial weakness, pain or numbness. Though larger acoustic neuromas can put pressure on the brainstem and cause a wide variety of conditions and symptoms, such as a buildup of spinal fluid called hydrocephalus, most are small under three centimeters in diameter making such problems unlikely. However, some patients can have this problem even with smaller tumors.Treatment options include surgical resection, Gamma Knife® radiosurgery, radiation therapy, or continued observation. Gamma Knife® radiosurgery has become a common treatment choice with good outcomes for patients with smaller tumors. The natural rate of tumor growth can vary from patient to patient. Meeting with surgeons experienced in acoustic neuroma care is important to help patients plan their care.Meningiomas Meningiomas are the most common type of benign intracranial tumors. They grow outside the brain and may cause symptoms by putting pressure on the brain. If they are located near the skull base, they can put pressure on cranial nerves. Specific symptoms caused by a meningioma depend on the size and location of the tumor.Although most meningiomas are benign and grow slowly, a small number grow more aggressively and may invade the brain.The most common treatment options for meningiomas are surgical resection and Gamma Knife® radiosurgery. Conventional external beam radiation can be used in selected meningiomas. Specific treatments are decided on a case by case basis and depend on many factors, including the size, location, and grade of the tumor, as well as the patient’s age.Arteriovenous Malformations (AVMs) and FistulasArteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are abnormal tangles of arteries and veins. While many AVMs never cause any symptoms, there can be serious problems when they occur inside the brain as a cerebral AVM, in the brain’s covering (the dura) as a dural AVM, or in the spinal cord as a spinal AVM.In an AVM, the capillaries that normally exchange blood between the arteries and the veins do not develop in a certain area, and the arteries pass blood directly into the veins. Because veins do not have strong walls, over time the high blood pressure of arterial blood flow can cause these vessels to become engorged and rupture or hemorrhage, or cause seizures, headaches, or other symptoms. These symptoms typically develop between the second and fourth decades of life, but people of all ages can be affected. Half of all brain AVMs present with a brain hemorrhage, while the rest typically present as a seizure, a headache (usually one sided and migraine like), or a neurological deficit. Dose plan for an arteriovenous malformationWhile direct surgery can also eliminate AVMs, radiosurgery allows treatment in hard to reach areas with a relatively low complication rate and no need for general anesthesia. Radiosurgery is sometimes combined with endovascular embolization or resection. Radiosurgery works by closing off the abnormal blood vessels of the malformation. Eliminating the AVM flow usually occurs over a two to four year period. Dose plan for a vestibular schwannomaTrigeminal Neuralgia Trigeminal neuralgia (TN), also known as tic douloureux, is a pain syndrome that occurs as one sided facial pain. A physical exam is usually normal or reveals some mild sensory loss; ma jor sensory loss suggests another cause that an MRI or other neuroimaging can identify. Medication therapy is the first choice to reduce pain. Carbamazepine (Tegretol) is considered the most effective treatment, though other op tions such as phenytoin (Dilantin), baclofen, gabapentin (Neurontin), oxcarbazepine, and clonazepam may work well for some patients. Before thinking about surgery, all trigeminal neuralgia patients should have an MRI, with a close examination of the posterior fossa, to rule out other causes of trigeminal nerve compres sion.For patients who are elderly, or those with multi ple sclerosis, recurrent MVD associated pain, or impaired hearing on the opposite side, Gamma Knife® radiosurgery is the least invasive option. Done on an outpatient basis, the procedure has benefits that grow over time. Patients com monly report pain relief that might start in the first day or two with improvement over the first month, on average and the effect on the nerve builds over several months. In our vast experi ence with this procedure, a small number only about 10 15 percent of patients have some loss of feeling in the face.Other Tumors and IndicationsGamma Knife® radiosurgery is a common choice for patients with selected pituitary tumors, pi neal tumors, hemangioblastomas, hemangio pericytomas, benign or malignant gliomas, or head and neck cancers. Radiosurgery can also be used for selected patients with behavioral disorders and movement disorders, such as ob sessive compulsive disorder or tremor. In fact, virtually every type of brain tumor has been treated using this approach. We have some of the world’s most extensive experience using this treatment, and will create a treatment plan targeted to your condition.For more information,please contact:Department of Neurosurgery 212.263.2950 Department of Radiation Oncology 212.731.5003Center for Advanced Radiosurgery 212.263.0581nyulangone.org/radiosurgeryNYU Langone Medical Center550 First AvenueNew York, NY 10016NYULANGONE.ORG


Page 1 of 3 Created: 10/2020 A Guide to Verifying Gender Affirming Surgery Benefits  Please be aware that before your first appointment with Dr. Bluebond Langner, you need to verify that your health insurance plan covers gender affirming surgery benefits.  Take the time to check your benefits! This is vital. Having accurate information helps avoid any surprise costs, charges or cancellations.  Log on to your insurance company’s portal in order to get the most accurate information. Then download your Summary of Benefits and Coverage and Certificate of Coverage (This might also be called Summary Plan Description or Evidence of Coverage. Refer to important note below).  Important note: The documents mentioned above (Summary of Benefits and Coverage, etc.) are specific to your personal health plan. Asking a friend with the same insurance company or Googling the name of your insurance company and “transgender surgery” will not give you accurate information! Most insurance companies have a variety of different plans with different benefits. As a result, you need to verify the specific benefits for your plan.  Review your certificate of coverage by searching for “gender” or “sex.” This search should lead you to a section on gender affirming surgery benefits (or exclusions).  If this section states that gender affirming surgery is covered, it should explain requirements for your surgery to be approved. For example, hormones, support letter details, etc.  You can also call the number on the back of your insurance card and ask about gender affirming surgery benefits. To make sure you get accurate information, we recommend calling multiple times and speaking to a few different representatives. Make sure you write down the name of each representative you speak with. And always make sure that you ask for a call reference number for your records! Page 2 of 3 Created: 10/2020 Questions to Ask Your Health Insurance Company Below is a list of questions you need to get answers to. Do this either by reviewing the Summary of Benefits and Coverage and Certificate of Coverage, or by calling your insurance plan and speaking to a representative. You need to do this before your consultation at NYU Langone: 1. Do I have gender affirming surgery benefits? 2. What are my co pays for consultations and office visits with surgeons? Is there a separate hospital co pay? 3. What is my deductible? Is there a different deductible for hospital stay and for seeing providers? 4. Do I then have co insurance? 5. What is my out of pocket maximum? 6. Is Dr. Bluebond Langner an in network/par provider?  Am I able to see out of network/non par providers and do I have out of network/non par benefits? Is there a deductible or out of pocket maximum separate for out of network/non par providers? 7. Do I need a referral to see a specialist? 8. What is the date every year that my deductible and out of pocket maximum reset? Is this a calendar year (January 1 to December 31) or a plan year (date range determined by plan)? If Dr. Bluebond Langner is not an in network (or non par) provider:  If Dr. Bluebond Langner is not in your insurance network, the cost of your consultation will be $262.50. Payment will be due at the time of this consult.  Call our office at 646 501 4449 if you have any questions after speaking to your insurance plan. Feel free to call our office with any questions you may have. Page 3 of 3 Created: 10/2020 Health Insurance Terms Explained  Benefits Services that your insurance plan agrees to cover and provide payment for.  Certificate of Coverage This document is also called “Summary Plan Description” or “Evidence of Coverage.” It explains all benefits covered and excluded in your plan.  Co pay What you pay each time you see a specific provider or specialist.  Deductible The costs you are expected to pay each year before your insurance plan starts paying for services.  Exclusions Services that are not covered by your insurance plan.  In network/par A provider or health care facility that has a contract with your insurance plan.  Out of pocket maximum The limit on costs you pay in a year.  Out of network/non par A provider or health care facility that does NOT have a contract with your insurance plan.  Referral A document from your primary care provider that indicates that you need to see a specialist for a certain number of visits. Some insurance plans require that you to have a referral before you see a specialist.  Summary of Benefits and Coverage A quick guide to your insurance plan’s benefits, coverage and costs. Additional Resources  Transgender Legal Defense & Education Fund (TLDEF) Trans Health Insurance Tutorial  Transcend Legal YouTube Videos “Trans Insurance Roadmap”  out2enroll Transgender Health Insurance Guides by State This guide was created by HealthyTrans and NYU Langone Health.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 General Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy NYU Langone Health may Use and Disclose Protected Health Information (“PHI”): • for Treatment, Payment and Health Care Operations, • to the patient or pursuant to the patient’s valid Authorization, • to a legal Personal Representative of the patient, • to family and friends involved in the patient’s care and for notification purposes as permitted by law, • to Business Associates subject to a Business Associate Agreement, • to create information that is not individually identifiable health information (known as De Identified Information) or Limited Data Sets, • for Research, Marketing, or Fundraising purposes as permitted by law, • incidentally to a permitted Use or Disclosure, and • as otherwise permitted or required by state or federal laws or regulations, for example, to a public health authority for public health activities or in response to a subpoena, discovery request or other lawful process. NYU Langone Health must Disclose PHI: • to the patient or the patient’s Personal Representative in response to a request for access or a request for an accounting of Disclosures in accordance with NYU Langone Health policy, and • as required to comply with investigations and compliance reviews by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services or as otherwise required by state or federal laws or regulations. Uses or Disclosures without Authorization that are not permitted by state or federal laws or regulations may only be made subject to a patient’s written Authorization. All applicable Uses and Disclosures of a decedent’s PHI will be in compliance with these policies for a period of fifty (50) years following the death of the individual. NYU Langone Health will limit Use and Disclosure of PHI to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose of the Use or Disclosure. An incidental Use or Disclosure is a secondary Use or Disclosure that cannot reasonably be prevented, is limited in nature, and occurs as by product of an otherwise permitted Use or Disclosure. NYU Langone Health implements Page 2 of 2 reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to limit incidental Uses and Disclosures of PHI and comply with the minimum necessary requirements. State and federal laws require additional safeguards for the release of information that is deemed especially sensitive, such as Confidential HIV Related Information, alcohol and drug abuse information, psychiatric information, genetic information, and reproductive health information. In most situations, a special Authorization or attestation is required before releasing any of this type of information. Workforce members should consult with the Sensitive PHI policy before using or disclosing sensitive PHI. Workforce Members should consult the applicable policy and procedure before Using or Disclosing a patient’s PHI for purposes other than Treatment, Payment, or Health Care Operations. Related Documents Disclosures of PHI to Family or Friends HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Providing PHI to Personal Representatives Sensitive PHI Use and Disclosure of PHI for Fundraising Use and Disclosure of PHI for Marketing Use and Disclosure of PHI for Research Use and Disclosure of PHI in the Patient Directory Uses and Disclosures of PHI for Treatment, Payment, and Health Care Operations Uses and Disclosures Requiring Patient Authorization Uses and Disclosures Required or Permitted by Law Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.502 45 C.F.R. §164.530 This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.