→ Needs and Assets: addressing the intersection of health and housing In recent years, there has been a growing recognition of the intersection of housing and health. Indeed, the State Prevention Agenda 2019 2024 cites access to safe housing as a key determinant of well being. A recent report by the American Hospital Association entitled Housing and the Role of Hospitals, succinctly summarizes the association between housing instability and poor health and increased health care utilization: Understanding needs and barriers for Chinese American smokers: In order to develop a more nuanced understanding of the needs of Chinese American smokers, we conducted 30 in depth interviews with Chinese American smokers and administered 49 surveys. We sought to understand their quitting experience and challenges, perceptions about the existing available smoking cessation services, barriers to accessing and using these services, and perspectives about what might assist them in quitting. Most of the participants were in the precontemplation stage. Reasons for the low intention to quit included low health literacy about the harms of smoking, misconceptions about quitting (several cited famous Chinese politicians who seemed to fall ill after quitting), and smoking as an important part of their social life and a way to relieve stress. Among the smokers who had tried to quit in the past 12 months, only three had visited smoking cessation clinics and no one had called a quitline. Smokers experienced barriers to using cessation services, including a low awareness about the services, skepticism about the effectiveness, concerns about their English proficiency, and time constraints. To optimize engagement in smoking cessation treatment, smokers suggested that the cessation services must be convenient to use at any time, be free of charge, require minimal amount of time, and provide detailed information about the treatment process and how to use the services. In addition, the services should provide knowledge about the harms of smoking (particularly the short term health effects), stress and craving management skills, and refusal and resistance skills. 15 Types of Housing Instability and Related Health Conditions Housing Issue Examples Related Health Conditions Homelessness  Total lack of shelter  Residence in transitional or emergency shelters  Increased rates of chronic and infectious conditions (e.g., diabetes, asthma, COPD and tuberculosis)  Mental health issues, including depression and elevated stress  Developmental delays in children Lack of affordable housing  Severe rent burden  Overcrowding  Eviction or foreclosure  Frequent moves  Stress, depression and anxiety disorders  Poor self reported health  Delayed or diminished access to medications and medical care Poor housing conditions  Structural issues  Allergens like mold, asbestos or pests  Chemical exposures  Leaks or problems with insulation, heating and cooling  Asthma or other respiratory issues  Allergic reactions  Lead poisoning, harm to brain development  Other chemical or carcinogenic exposures  Falls and other injuries due to structural issues Housing instability and quality are priority social determinants of health in all of our CSP communities and for each, we reviewed data and explored community concerns relevant to this issue. We undertook more detailed assessments in Brooklyn. Health and housing in Sunset Park Our methodology included analysis of secondary data and the collection and analysis of primary data. Secondary data from population based surveys, reports, and administrative data were used to describe the current snapshot of housing and demographics in Sunset Park (see Appendix D for data sources and indicator descriptions). These population based data helped to characterize the overarching housing landscape in Sunset Park, and provided context for the themes raised during focus group discussions. Primary data collection consisted of key informant interviews and focus groups. In late June 2017, consultants Bonnie Mohan and Henie Lustgarten, founders of the Bronx Health and Housing Consortium, first met with the community based organizations that are partners in the NYU Langone Brooklyn Performing Provider System to introduce the project and to hear their perspectives. Following this introduction, from July to September they held 11 focus groups (lasting from 60 to 90 minutes) with a mix of supervisory and direct care staff. They also conducted seven interviews with key informants from the NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn and from the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone. (See Appendix D for a list of participants.) Preliminary findings were presented at a large meeting on October 2, 2017 to a group that included representatives from across NYU Langone Health, the Brooklyn Health Home, CAMBA, Enterprise Community Partners, LISC, policy makers and government officials, and the Robin Hood Foundation. Health Research & Educational Trust. (2017). Social Determinants of Health Series: Housing and the Role of Hospitals. Chicago: Health Research & Educational Trust. 16 Small residential buildings, generally two to three floors with basements, dominate the housing landscape in Sunset Park. Most housing units are renter occupied. There are no public housing units in the neighborhood, and the use of federally subsidized housing choice vouchers is low in Sunset Park. Properties tend to be owned by individuals or entities that own a single property in Sunset Park. Sunset Park has the second oldest housing stock in New York City, with nearly two out of three housing units built before 1940. More than one out of three renter households are severely rent burdened, meaning that gross rent is more than one half of household income, despite about one out of two rental units being rent controlled or rent stabilized. In 2016, the median asking rent was $2,100 per month, yet the median annual household income amounted to $3,256 per month for renter occupied households. An average household in Sunset Park has 3.25 people, compared with 2.74 in Brooklyn overall. Sunset Park ranks third highest in severely crowded households among New York City neighborhoods, with nearly one out of ten renter households having more than 1.5 people per room. Sunset Park has the second oldest housing stock in New York City and residents often have no choice but to rent units in poor condition. More than one out of four households see roaches on a typical day and one out of five households have seen mice or rats in their building. Due to inadequate heating, about one out of six households has used a supplemental source of heat in the winter such as a kitchen stove, fireplace or portable heater. In the focus groups and interviews, we found a strong consensus among health care providers and CBO staff:  Housing is a key social determinant of health;  There is a need to have systems to identify patients and clients who are experiencing housing instability;  There is a need to develop pathways, and build knowledge and relationships across the health and housing sectors;  Patients’ lack of safe or appropriate housing can create barriers to safe discharge. 17 These findings are discussed in more depth in the attached report (see Appendix D). Health and housing in Red Hook Red Hook community members identified “home repairs” as the most essential service needed to improve health and wellbeing in Red Hook, and in small group conversations, participants made a strong connection between the top health concerns identified in the community survey and poor quality housing. For example, of survey participants rated asthma as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. In focus groups, residents noted the impact that inconsistent heating and cooling, mold, and cockroaches and pests can have on people with asthma. Similarly, of survey respondents rated stress, anxiety and depression as one of the most important health issues in Red Hook. Focus group participants cited needed home repairs, rent increases, and housing insecurity as key causes of stress, anxiety and depression. Frequent mental distress is higher among Red Hook residents than NYC residents as a whole. Approximately one in five adults who live in Red Hook Houses reported frequent mental distress. → Need and Assets: preventing and addressing obesity and cardiovascular disease Obesity continues to be epidemic: more than half of adult New Yorkers are overweight () or obese (). Data show that obesity begins early in life: One out of five NYC public school children in grades K 8 is obese, putting these children at risk for hypertension, elevated lipid levels and diabetes referred to as “adult onset” prior to the obesity epidemic. These risks escalate as obese children become adults, when they also become at risk for heart disease, stroke, arthritis, and cancer. For these reasons, the NY State Prevention Agenda data slides list “poor diet and physical activity” just below tobacco use as a “modifiable factor” for mortality responsible for over 25,000 deaths a year. Disadvantaged urban communities are disproportionately affected by obesity, in part due to lack of neighborhood resources, such as the availability of healthy food and safe places for physical activity. In New York City, as in the rest of the country, there are clear income and racial disparities with regard to obesity. Obesity prevalence is nearly twice as high among adults who live in very high poverty neighborhoods compared with adults who live in low poverty neighborhoods ( vs. ). Obesity related disparities: → Adult Latinx and African American New Yorkers have obesity rates of , compared with White adults, of whom are obese. → Latinx NYC public school children have the highest prevalence of overweight (), followed by blacks (). Whites () and Asians () are less likely to be overweight. → Although the rates of overweight and obesity are lower among Asian American groups, given emerging evidence that Asian populations are more vulnerable to insulin resistance at lower weights, preventing obesity is a high priority. → In addition, Asian Americans experienced the largest increase in obesity (from 20.1 percent to 29.2 percent) from 2004 to 2014. → South Asians are particularly vulnerable. A recent Epi Brief by the NYC DOHMH found that among Asians, of South Asians were overweight or obese. 18 Obesity prevention beginning in early childhood is important as a way to affect the health trajectory typically seen for immigrants, where each subsequent generation is at increased risk of obesity and the development of diabetes. There is substantial evidence that the roots of obesity are established in early childhood and that effective obesity prevention efforts need to target families and children early in life. Children who are already overweight by ages 3 to 7 are at much greater risk of becoming overweight adults. Moreover, young children are able to self regulate eating in response to feelings of hunger and fullness, but by age 5, they become increasingly influenced by negative environmental factors. Finally, health behaviors (such as eating habits and physical activity patterns) that contribute to obesity become established in early childhood and hard to change thereafter. These developmental patterns make early childhood a critical time for obesity prevention. The pre teen years are also a critical moment for stabilizing and reducing obese children’s weight and Body Mass Index (BMI) scores. This period marks a time when children are beginning to develop better abstract reasoning ability, are better able to consider the consequences of their actions, have more control over what they eat and how they spend their time, and begin making their own decisions. Overweight adolescents with metabolic syndrome have a sevenfold greater risk for developing diabetes and twice the risk for developing cardiovascular disease. Multidisciplinary programs that include nutrition education, behavior modification, and promotion of physical activity have been shown to be the most effective in addressing the needs of children who are already struggling with overweight or obesity. Parents play a critical role in the prevention of obesity among children. However, there are substantial challenges to engaging low income families, who are often at greatest risk, in obesity prevention efforts including difficulties in reaching out to populations that may have low levels of education and health literacy, who may face competing priorities and other stressors, or who may not have access to healthy foods and safe play spaces. Research also highlights the importance of alignment with the local context and family’s cultural beliefs and practices to increase family engagement and increase initiation of healthy behaviors in the home. Successful efforts to engage parents and other key family members in obesity prevention need to address these challenges. Obesity continues to be a concern among community residents and leaders in the Lower East Side/ Chinatown and Sunset Park. In the Lower East Side/Chinatown, adult and childhood obesity rates are lower than City rates, and Sunset Park obesity rates are similar to citywide rates. Yet, these rates are still high and low income children in both communities remain vulnerable. B. Priority Area: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children → Needs and Assets: Supporting families through parenting, early childhood, and teen pregnancy prevention programs Although the NY State Prevention Agenda NY State Health Assessment 2018 notes that “[w]e are making good progress in some maternal and infant health indicators including teen pregnancy and breastfeeding,” disparities remain. Indeed, the NYC DOHMH Take Care New York 2020 highlights the need to reduce rates of teen pregnancy, noting the higher rate among low income 19 populations. Sunset Park has the 10th highest teen birth rate among the 59 community districts in the City, with 26.1 births per 1000 girls ages 15 19. Of particular concern for low income populations is maternal/child exposure to adversity, which is increasingly recognized as a major public health issue. In New York State, of children experience two or more adverse childhood events (ACE), defined as traumatic experiences occurring before the age of 18, such as poverty, parental mental illness, parental substance abuse, neglect or abuse, exposure to domestic violence, and other traumas. Poverty, which is the most common and pervasive ACE, disproportionately affects immigrant families, which comprise a large part of the Lower East Side/Chinatown and Sunset Park communities. In addition, NYULH providers and community partners report that recent federal policies and rhetoric have increased the stress levels for many immigrant New Yorkers. Complementing a grant from the Bezos Family Foundation to improve the health and well being of infants, children and their families in Sunset Park, the Brooklyn Data Station has done an extensive review of existing data sources to understand relevant community demographics, birth outcomes, health, child welfare, and patterns of early childhood school enrollment. We have also spoken to families and other community stakeholders in the Lower East Side/Chinatown, Sunset Park, and Red Hook about their needs, assets and priorities. Children born into poverty are at risk for far reaching negative physical and mental health effects, perpetuating cycles of disadvantage into adulthood. Maternal stressors during the prenatal period increase the risk of pre and postnatal depression, the likelihood of pregnancy complications and adverse birth outcomes, and decreased responsiveness in the newborn, as well as reduced mother child interactions, harsh discipline, lower initiation of breastfeeding, over feeding, and increased emergency department visits. Fetal exposure to maternal stress in pregnancy negatively impacts a child’s neuro development and increases the likelihood of poor health outcomes, such as delays in communication, socioemotional competence, cognitive functioning, behavioral problems, and chronic conditions. These adverse early influences in turn Understanding the needs and priorities of families with young children: In interviews with key informants and meetings with community based organizations, key themes emerged that are relevant to families in all of our CSP communities:  Many people spoke of the value of having inter generational families, which gives perspective, emotional support and assistance to children and families. This also has implications for how services are provided and families are engaged.  Closely knit sub communities, often from the same home towns, provide a trusted group of neighbors and a source of support.  Parents have multiple jobs, often including shift work, limiting time that can be spent with family.  Financial challenges make it difficult to find childcare and Pre K programs that are both affordable and compatible with busy schedules.  Work schedules and a lack of proficiency with the English language can be barriers to parental involvement in the schools.  Community Board members and community partners highlighted the need to prevent and address mental health issues early and noted a dearth of mental health services, particularly for children needing assessments or evaluations for school.  The impact on families of the stress of poverty and poor quality or unstable housing particularly amidst gentrification is of grave concern. 20 set the stage for subsequent impaired scholastic achievement, conduct disorder, criminal justice system involvement, and a continuation of intergenerational disadvantage. For these reasons, as described below, several of our programs that are directed at promoting healthy women, infants and children address issues across the birth line in order to improve outcomes for two generations. C. Community needs not addressed and why Across New York City and within our selected neighborhoods, there are, of course, many health needs that are beyond the scope of this plan. Indeed, the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Take Care New York 2020 identifies twenty three key indicators under four overarching themes. Selecting priority areas for NYULH’s Community Service Plan and using resources efficiently and effectively necessarily means concentrating on some specific challenges and affording less attention to others. Access to culturally and linguistically competent mental health services, senior services and facilities, drug overdose services, homelessness prevention, traffic safety, and diabetes prevention and management were all identified as concerns. While some of these needs are being met by other NYULH programs, others are being addressed by the many valuable community organizations and health care providers in the community. Over the duration of the CSP, we will coordinate our efforts with community organizations so that we continue to have a comprehensive and up to date understanding of community needs and resources, enabling us to maximize our collective impact to improve the communities’ health. D. Information gaps that limit NYULH’s ability to assess communities’ health needs As noted above, although the New York City DOHMH provides a wide array of data about the health of the City and its neighborhoods, the diversity within the Lower East Side/Chinatown and Sunset Park and Red Hook economically and in terms of race and ethnicity necessitates a more granular, on the ground approach to understanding community needs and assets. Similarly, data is sparce about the needs of subpopulations. Our engagement with community partners and meetings with community residents and organizations have greatly enhanced our understanding of community needs and priorities. As described below, this process will continue throughout the next three years of the Community Service Plan. Indeed, we are currently working with the NYULH Brooklyn Arab American Advisory Council (19 community based organizations) to conduct needs assessment in 2019. 21 E. Existing assets, facilities, and resources To develop an inventory of existing facilities and resources, we reviewed listings of Selected Facilities and Program Sites prepared by the NYC Department of City Planning as part of the Community District Profile for Manhattan CD 3, Brooklyn CD 7, and Red Hook. The NYC Department of City Planning NYC CityMap portal (http://www1.nyc.gov/site/planning/community/community portal.page) and Capital Planning Platform (https://capitalplanning.nyc.gov/facilities) were also used to catalog assets and resources such as schools, day care centers, senior centers, libraries, and healthcare facilities and services. For issue and program specific needs, we also relied on information provided on the Greater New York Hospital Association Health Information for Empowerment website (http://www.hitesite.org/Default.aspx), which provides information about free and low cost health and social services by zip code. These sources are a useful guide and checklist. In order to have a better understanding of the available resources in the Sunset Park neighborhood, we created an asset map that visualizes the distribution and the capacity of the facilities. The asset map includes data retrieved from NYC Department of City Planning and the information gathered from the community partners. Facilities and resources collected from the community are organized into the following categories: Family Health Centers at NYU Langone programs, local clinical services, faith based organizations, green spaces, public transportation, institutions, school based health centers, and community based organizations. Where data were available, we added program aim, capacity, age range of population served, languages offered, and other related information. NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn has a long history of strong collaborative relationships with community partners to create integrated service delivery systems that empower individuals and families and provide them with the skills they need to improve their health and effect change within the community. Many of these organizations, like NYULH Brooklyn (formerly Lutheran Medical Center), developed from faith based organizations. The Center for Family Life and Good Shepherd Services are multi service, child welfare organizations with deep roots in southwest Brooklyn. Southwest Brooklyn Industrial Development Corporation works in partnership with the local Community Board to drive the economic empowerment of Sunset Park’s waterfront industry. Workforce development providers such as Opportunities for a Better Tomorrow and Brooklyn Workforce Innovations focus on building the work readiness and skills of local residents. Screenshot of Asset Map 22 NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn plays a unique role in the community as both a major health care and human services provider. Family Health Centers at NYU Langone Department of Community Based Programs provides community engagement, family strengthening and educational programming to address social determinants of residents’ health. Services include adult education, family literacy, youth development, workforce development, case management and supportive services, early childhood services, services for older adults, and community service opportunities. The Lower East Side and Chinatown, home to waves of immigrants over several generations, have many strong and enduring community organizations that provide a wide array of services, including education, housing, health and wellness, and advocacy. Some of these partner organizations, including University Settlement Society and Henry Street Settlement, grew out of the social reform movements of the 1800s. Others, including Asian Americans for Equality and the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center, began as grassroots groups of volunteers in the mid 1970s and have since grown into treasured multiservice agencies. Manhattan CD 3 also has many valued health care providers, including the William F. Ryan NENA Community Health Center, the Betances Health Center, and Gouverneur Health, among others. Many smaller grassroots groups continue to serve this neighborhood and will continue to be invaluable partners in our prevention initiatives. The Community Board is active and engaged in a wide range of health and wellness issues. We have met with many organizations and individuals as part of the Community Health Needs Assessment and we will continue this outreach over the course of the Plan. Red Hook is home to a dedicated network of non profits, arts and cultural organizations, religious institutions, and resident led community building activities. Residents rated community based organization as a top strength in the neighborhood, and also value the community’s affordable housing, parks, community gatherings, schools, and public transportation. The Alex House Project is a peer led social service and leadership development organization that supports pregnant and parenting young mothers and fathers. Good Shepherd Services provides a wide array of services to children, youth and families. The Red Hook Community Justice Center is the nation’s first multi jurisdictional community court and addresses neighborhood problems in southwest Brooklyn through programs that work to improve public safety and trust in justice. The Red Hook Initiative offers youth development and community building programs, including oversight of Brooklyn’s largest urban farm as of 2018. We continually deepen our understanding of community assets through interviews and meetings with community leaders and from ongoing partnerships, some of which span decades. These relationships give us a deep understanding of the history and resources of the communities. Community Service Plan/Implementation Strategy Building on the clinical and scientific expertise and capabilities of NYU Langone Hospitals and the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, NYULH’s three year Community Service Plan takes a family centered, multi sector and holistic approach to improving health in Manhattan’s Lower East Side and Chinatown (Manhattan Community District 3), and the Sunset Park neighborhood 23 of Brooklyn. With the needs and assets assessment now complete, we will also be launching a program in Red Hook, Brooklyn, currently being planned with our community partners. I. New York State and New York City Public Health Priorities Aligning with New York State Prevention Agenda and New York City public health priorities, the Community Service Plan focuses on Preventing Chronic Diseases by reducing risk factors for obesity, cardiovascular disease and reducing tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke, and on Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children through parenting and early childhood programs and teen pregnancy prevention. Each of our Community Service Plan programs is supported by a strong evidence base. Please see Appendix E for a description of the evidence for each initiative, together with relevant citations. II. Addressing Health Disparities Each of the programs we are implementing addresses a health disparity: the high risk for obesity among Latinx and other immigrant and low income populations; high risks of hypertension and barriers to care for South Asian populations; high rates of smoking among Asian American men; high rates of teen pregnancy and risk for sexually transmitted disease among low income youth; and increased risk of maternal depression and child development problems among families who experience the stresses of poverty. The programs span multiple sectors, including community based early childhood education settings and schools; primary care; housing; and community settings, including faith based organizations and social service providers. In the sections that follow, we briefly describe our programs, our progress to date, and our goals under the 2019 2021 Plan. See Appendix F for a table that summarizes project components, together with anticipated impact and performance measures. See Appendix E for a description of the evidence base for each program. 24 III. Programs, Progress and Plans: Preventing Chronic Diseases A. Tobacco Free Community Progress and Impact Smoker Navigator Program Despite the wide availability of evidence based smoking cessation treatment resources, only a small proportion of smokers use these resources. This is particularly true among Chinese Americans, a population with disproportionally high smoking rate. In New York City, the current smoking rate among Chinese American men is significantly higher than the general male population (28. vs. 17.). Most Chinese American smokers who attempt to quit smoking do not use evidence based smoking cessation aids. To address the disparities in tobacco use among Chinese Americans, in 2014, experts from NYULH Department of Population Health in collaboration with Asian Americans for Equality (AAFE) and the Asian Smokers’ Quitline (ASQ) launched a Smoker Navigator Program. Prior study has demonstrated that community based navigation is an acceptable and efficacious intervention to address the barriers to accessing tobacco cessation treatment services among low income smokers. Our Smoker Navigator Program trains lay workers (i.e., AAFE staff) to (1) identify smokers through community outreach, (2) educate and motivate smokers to quit or try to quit, and (3) refer smokers to evidence based smoking cessation resources (e.g., ASQ). AAFE staff screen for tobacco use among their clients (people who use AAFE’s services including housing, insurance, and small business development) and identify smokers through community outreach activities. Smokers are then encouraged to quit, provided with brief cessation counseling and nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), and referred to ASQ for more intensive cessation counseling. In addition, AAFE incorporates anti smoking education in a variety of community outreach activities (e.g., workshops) which are developed to meet the needs of Chinese community with a particular focus on housing rights and fire safety. Anti smoking education and information regarding the Smoker Navigator Program are incorporated into these outreach activities. For example, in the workshops, AAFE educates community members about the harms of smoking and the dangers of secondhand smoke exposure, and offers guidance on how to make homes and buildings smoke free 25 From September 2016 to December 2018, AAFE reached out to and informed over 3,000 people about the Smoker Navigator Program. The navigators provided free smoking cessation counseling to 215 smokers including 189 smokers who had never previously tried to quit or cut down, provided NRT to 171 smokers, and successfully referred 122 smokers to ASQ. Data from a 6 week follow up survey showed that of smokers reported that they had made at least one quit attempt, reported that they had quit (defined as being abstinent for at least 7 days), and reported that the Smoker Navigator Program was helpful. Supported by the CSP, two of AAFE’s staff members completed the Rutgers Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist Training program. Building capacity among AAFE staff to offer expert education and treatment services has been a core goal of this program and a key accomplishment. Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative (AATFCI) Growing out of our CSP partnership and with the support of the RCHN Community Health Foundation, the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC) launched a City wide Asian American Tobacco Free Community Initiative (AATFCI), which worked with the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene to recognize smoking among Asian American men as a health disparity and to commit resources to a culturally relevant and language accessible campaign to reduce smoking in the Asian American community. AATFCI aims to reduce tobacco use and exposure to secondhand smoke among Asian Americans in NYC through multisector stakeholder collaborations. In addition to NYULH and CBWCHC, AATFCI partners include: three Federally Qualified Health Centers (including CBWCHC, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and Community Healthcare Network), HealthFirst, AAFE and Korean Community Services, the Chinese American Medical Society, the Chinese American Independent Practice Association, NYC Smoke Free at Public Health Solutions, NYC DOHMH, NYCHA, and ASQ. Asian Americans for Equality Since its founding in 1974, Asian Americans for Equality (AAFE) has evolved into a nationally recognized affordable housing developer and social service provider, serving New York City's one million Asian American residents. Services include community development and housing preservation, housing legal services, community education, citizenship preparation, and social services. AAFE has led campaigns to promote equal employment, affordable housing, fair housing, transportation equity, local economic development, community lending, civic participation, healthcare access, immigrant rights, and educational access. As a partner of the NYC Coalition for a Smoke Free City, AAFE provides culturally competent and linguistically accessible smoking prevention education and smoking cessation to Asian American communities, and leads grassroots advocacy campaigns to build support for key initiatives such as smoke free outdoor air and smoke free housing. 26 In 2018, CBWCHC, in collaboration with NYLH, supported AATFCI partners in seeking City Council funding to expand the Smokers Navigator program, resulting in funding for the Korean Community Services of Metropolitan New York, Inc. to expand the Navigator Program to Korean Americans. In addition, to continue to strengthen community partners’ capacity to provide information about tobacco use and smoking cessation services, the CSP hosted a 2 day workshop in March 2017. CBOs who are partners in the CSP and AATFCI participated in the workshop. The feedback was excellent and demonstrated the need to continue to provide training to CBO leaders and staff to create a cadre of experts in the community to guide smokers toward evidence based treatment. The combined efforts of the AATFCI and the CSP Tobacco Free Community program has had an impact at a City level. Through our efforts, the NYC DOHMH recognized smoking as a health disparity among Asian American men. On June 28, 2017, in collaboration with AATFCI and hosted by CBWCHC, NYC DOHMH released an Epi Data Brief on the leading causes of death among Chinese New Yorkers. Commissioner Dr. Mary T. Bassett noted that although heart disease is the leading cause of death for New Yorkers overall, according to 2014 data, cancer was the leading cause of death among for Chinese New Yorkers, largely a result of the persistently high rates of smoking among Asian American men. In response, the NYC DOHMH launched an Asian language public awareness campaign in June, 2018 to encourage Chinese men to quit smoking and to link them to ASQ. The CSP will continue to play a key role in disseminating this information. Financial Incentive Cessation Project To address the high smoking rate among Chinese Americans and low utilization of smoking cessation services, in partnership with CBWCHC, in 2018 the CSP Tobacco Free Community program implemented a financial incentive cessation program. This program aims to increase Leadership from the Charles B. Wang Community Health Center and NYU Langone Health at a press conference at which Commissioner Mary Bassett and Dr. Wenhui Li of the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene released a report highlighting the need to address smoking rates among men of Chinese decent. Charles B. Wang Community Health Center For more than 40 years, Charles B. Wang Community Health Center (CBWCHC) has been a leader in providing high quality, affordable, and culturally competent primary care and support services to medically underserved Asian Americans and other disadvantaged populations in the New York metropolitan area. In addition to providing comprehensive primary care, CBWCHC promotes the overall health of the community through innovative health education and disease prevention programs. 27 engagement and retention in CBWCHC’s existing smoking cessation program by offering financial incentives for those who enroll in the smoking cessation counseling program and incentives for attending the three sessions (in person or by phone) and for taking the NRT they are provided. Financial incentive programs for smoking cessation have been demonstrated to address both of these issues and to promote sustained smoking abstinence rates. We are evaluating the program to examine whether financial incentives are effective to promote Chinese American smokers’ engagement and retention in smoking cessation treatment and cessation rates. From September 1st to December 31st 2018, CBWCHC screened 35 adult Chinese American smokers and successfully enrolled five smokers into the incentive program; those who do not agree to enroll can still receive cessation counseling through CBWCHC. All five smokers completed the smoking cessation treatment and took the dispensed NRT. We plan to collect follow up data on the cessation outcomes this year. Smoke free Public Housing Focus Groups On July 30th, 2018, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s (HUD) new smoke free public housing policy went into effect. The primary rationale for the new smoke free policy is to protect residents from environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) exposure which is responsible for a wide range of serious health problems among adults and children. Public housing residents are particularly susceptible to ETS exposure because most of them live in multiunit housing. In collaboration with NYCHA, we conducted 10 focus groups with 91 NYCHA residents (including both smokers and non smokers) from June and July 2017, one year before the new policy took into effect, to explore NYCHA residents’ attitudes toward HUD’s new smoke free policy and perceived barriers to policy implementation, and to elicit suggestions for optimizing policy implementation, including how to best offer cessation services. The focus groups were conducted in multiple languages (4 in English, 3 in Spanish, 2 in Cantonese, and 1 in bilingual Mandarin and Cantonese) and in five NYCHA developments located in Lower East Side of Manhattan (i.e., Baruch Houses, Smith Houses, Gomper Houses, Meltzer Houses, and Educational Alliance). Findings from this project provided important information that informed NYCHA’s policy development and strategies for optimizing the implementation process. The data from the focus groups resulted in a publication “Perceptions about the federally mandated smoke free housing policy among residents living in public housing in New York City” which appeared in the International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health. New York City Housing Authority New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) is the largest housing authority in the United States. NYCHA has the mission to increase opportunities for low and moderate income New Yorkers by providing safe, affordable housing and facilitating access to social and community services. More than 400,000 New Yorkers reside in NYCHA's 326 public housing developments across the NYC’s 5 boroughs. 28 Plans Expansion of Smoker Navigator Program to reach out to NYCHA residents From 2019 to 2021, we will expand the Smoker Navigator Program to reach out to NYCHA residents in Lower East Side of Manhattan. Public housing residents represent a predominantly minority low income population with higher smoking rates than the general population. Because of HUD’s new smoke free public housing policy, there is growing demand and need for smoking cessation services among NYCHA residents. We will leverage our existing program, led by AAFE, to address this need. This expansion will be accomplished by leveraging AAFE’s large network and collaboration with CBOs that also work with NYCHA residents and are located in Lower East Side of Manhattan near NYCHA housing (e.g., Hamilton Madison Senior Center, Grand Street Settlement, and Henry Street Settlement). The CBOs will refer their clients who need cessation services to AAFE. The navigators at AAFE will provide bilingual smoking cessation counseling services (English and Chinese) to these referrals, as well AAFE’s clients; provide NRT patches and gums; and refer smokers to ASQ (for those who speak Chinese) or the New York State Smokers’ Quitline and the Smokefree Text Messaging Programs (for those who speak English). The Smoker Navigator Program will (1) enroll at least 85 smokers (including 10 or more NYCHA residents) to the Smoker Navigator Program each year; (2) provide NRT to at least 50 smokers; and (3) refer at least 35 smokers to