Latest News Lessons Learned from Being Treated for a Brain Tumor Survivor of Rare Brain Condition Celebrates Valentine’s Day New Leader in Brain Tumor Treatment & Research Named Conditions We Treat with Neurosurgery Our doctors rank among the very best neurosurgeons in their field, and treat all types of conditions affecting the brain and spinal cord, such as: brain tumors, including glioma and astrocytoma as well as metastatic brain tumors skull base tumors acoustic neuroma brain aneurysms, such as arteriovenous malformations and fistulas childhood brain and spinal cord tumors normal pressure hydrocephalus pediatric hydrocephalus scoliosis in adults pediatric scoliosis stroke and vascular disease carpal tunnel syndrome movement disorders trigeminal neuralgia neck pain back pain spina bifida spondylolysis spondylolisthesis neurofibromatosis We perform the full spectrum of brain, spine, and nerve surgery in adults and children using a range of cutting-edge neurosurgical approaches, including interventional neurovascular procedures, minimally invasive and endoscopic cranial and spinal techniques, skull base approaches, and stereotactic radiosurgery. This same patient-centered approach extends to our state-of-the-art surgical facilities, our groundbreaking neurosurgical research laboratories , and our outstanding residency training program . With the most cutting-edge technologies and treatments at our disposal, and access to NYU Langone’s world-class specialists in complementary fields such as neurology, neuro-oncology, neuropathology, neuroradiology, neuro-ophthalmology, otolaryngology, radiation oncology and endocrinology, our neurosurgeons we have the best tools to provide the very highest level of care. Request an Appointment with a Neurosurgeon To find a location or request an appointment, please select a doctor Physicians seeking to refer a patient to NYU Langone may call 212-263-2950 Our Neurosurgery Programs Brain & Spine Tumor Center Our center has a longstanding reputation as a leader in the treatment of brain tumors and skull base tumors in adults and children. Center for Advanced Radiosurgery Our experts use Gamma Knife® radiosurgery for noninvasive brain surgery. Center for Neuromodulation Our doctors use implantable neurostimulators and other surgical techniques to manage neurological conditions. Center for Stroke and Neurovascular Diseases We combine medical skill with technology to manage neurovascular conditions. Comprehensive Epilepsy Center We provide personalized treatment that improves seizure control and quality of life. Cranial Bypass Program We perform extracranial–intracranial bypass surgery, also called cranial bypass surgery, to treat people who are at increased risk for stroke. Pituitary Center Our experts are leaders in advanced treatment for people with all types of pituitary tumors and disorders. Peripheral Nerve Center Our doctors specialize in surgical treatment for conditions that affect the nerves outside the central nervous system. Spine Center Our neurosurgeons offer a range of treatment options for people with spine conditions. Endoscopic Spine Surgery Program Our endoscopic spine surgeons perform ultra-minimally invasive procedures for several conditions of the neck and lower back. Household Income Is Factor in Decisions to Stop Life Support Neurosurgeons Use New Tech as ‘Window’ to the Brain How NYU Langone’s Neurosurgery Program Became No. 1 Cancer Specialist Plays Guitar at Patient’s Comeback Concert Artificial Intelligence Diagnoses Brain Tumors in the OR A Delicate Brain Surgery Requires an Awake Patient Advanced Planning Enables Rare Spinal Tumor Resection Neurosurgical Skill, Advanced Imaging Enable Risky Resection Artificial Intelligence Fuels Neurosurgical Progress Social Media Comment Policy for the General Public At NYU Langone Health, we have an active presence on social media. Through social media channels such as Twitter we hope to engage in conversation with individuals and organizations who are interested in medical care, research, and education. We encourage your comments and opinions, and we aim to respond to as many of your posts as we can. To keep the conversation productive, we ask you to please: Keep personal information private . Please don’t post medical and personal information about yourself or others, including family and friends. The internet is not private, and the information that you post will never go away, sometimes even after you delete it. Be honest. Please don’t misrepresent yourself or post information that you know is incorrect. Be polite. If you use profanity or post a personal attack, vulgar language, or harassing comment, we will remove it. Don’t post spam. This includes repeated postings, chain letters, advertisements, and all other postings that are unrelated to healthcare or NYU Langone Health. We reserve the right to review comments posted on our social media sites and to remove any that violate our policy. We also reserve the right to block repeat offenders from continuing to post. Please remember that medical information is covered by privacy laws. We can’t comment on the specifics of your medical situation or answer questions regarding your medical treatment on social media. We’re here to provide information, not advice, so our postings are not professional medical recommendations. Please consult your medical provider with any specific questions that you have about your health. Postings that appear on our social media do not necessarily reflect the views of NYU Langone Health. When we link to another website, that site may not necessarily reflect our views, either. And, if we choose to follow another user or highlight another social media post, we are not endorsing that user or content. Finally, when you post on any of our social media channels, you agree to indemnify us against any legal claims related to posted material, such as damages, losses, liabilities, judgments, costs, and/or expenses. We look forward to interacting with you. Learn more about our secure email messaging system, SendSafe, for external email communications. FAQs for SendSafe Email Recipients Quick Reference Guide for SendSafe Email Recipients The Office of Research Compliance provides support and education for members of the NYU Langone Health community in conducting scientific research in compliance with regulatory requirements and ethical standards. Research Compliance supports all institutional oversight functions related to research in the following areas: Human Subjects Protection, Animal Welfare, Clinical Trials and FDA Compliance, Scientific Misconduct and Responsible Conduct of Research, Grants Management, Financial Administration of Research, Allowable Cost Compliance, Environmental Health and Safety, Biosafety and Radiation Safety, Select Agents and Export Controls Regulation, Research Data and Materials, Ownership and Use, and the Bayh-Dole Act requirements regarding federally funded inventions. Research Compliance leads or assists in the development of research-related policies and procedures, auditing and monitoring of compliance with federal and state laws and regulations involving the conduct of research, training and education in research compliance, assurance of compliance by collaborators and sub-recipients, and the investigation and resolution of research-related, non-compliance events, concerns and allegations. Policies Code of Conduct Policy - Institutional Conflicts of Interest in Human Subjects Research Policy - Research and Other Sponsored Programs Conflict of Interest Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Policy The Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management’s Professional Billing Compliance team supports physicians, non-physician providers, and administrators of the NYU Grossman School of Medicine Faculty Group Practice (FGP) to ensure accurate billing, coding, and documentation for professional services. Professional Billing Compliance provides group and individual training and education and provides guidance regarding billing for new services and unique scenarios and ongoing assessments of compliance risks. Professional Billing Compliance also works with individual faculty group practices to respond to government and third-party payer inquiries and audits. Researchers at have found that women experiencing chest pain wait 11 minutes longer to receive care in the emergency department than men with the same symptoms, highlighting a critical gap in heart attack diagnosis and treatment. To address this disparity, our cardiologists have developed a deep understanding of women’s heart health. We know that women who are experiencing a heart attack may describe their symptoms—especially chest pain—differently from men. We also use the latest diagnostic tools to determine the cause of women’s heart symptoms so that we can create the best possible treatment plans. This is one of the many ways our health system leverages the latest research to provide top-quality patient care. Women’s Heart Attacks Are Often Misdiagnosed. Dr. Harmony Reynolds Is on a Mission to Change That. Women’s Cardiology Schedule an Appointment View & Share Radiology Images & Reports For Referring Physicians Radiation Safety MRI Scans CT Scans Ultrasound Imaging X-Ray Imaging Mammography Interventional Radiology Bone Density Testing PET/CT Scans Nuclear Medicine Imaging It’s now easier than ever to view and share your radiology images and print your imaging reports. View and Share Your Radiology Images and Reports on a Mobile Device Most reports are posted in your as soon as they are available. Using the on a mobile device, you can view your report and radiology images. You can also share them with your family, friends, or care team outside of NYU Langone by following the steps below: Log in to the NYU Langone Health app and tap on the “Test Results” icon. Tap on the exam name to view the report. To view the images, select “Click Here to View Your Images” at the top of the report. You can also view the report if posted via the timeline at the top of the image viewer by clicking on the document icon. Images are released to patients immediately following the exam. If you need to view your images before the report is available: Log in to the NYU Langone Health app, tap on the “Menu” icon, and then select “Radiology Services.” Select the “View Images & Results” button. Select the “Go to Images to View and Share” button. To share your images and reports: After following the above steps, tap “Send Link” on the image viewer toolbar to create and send a secure link to share your images. If you wish to share multiple exams at once, click on “Select More Studies” button and select the necessary exams. Enter the recipient’s email address and create a password, and tap “Get Link.” To paste this link into an email or text, select “Copy Link.” If you want to send the link using your default email app, select “Send Link Via Email.” An email is generated by your default email account. Send the recipient the password for the link in a separate message. The link to the images activates approximately 15 minutes after it is created and expires in 14 days. View, Share, and Download Radiology Images and Print Reports on a Computer You can use your on a computer to view, share, and download your images and also print your imaging reports by doing the following: Log in to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account, tap on the “Test Results” icon. Click on the imaging exam name to read the report. To print the report, click on the printer icon at the top of the report. To view the images, select “Click Here to View Your Images To create and send a secure link to share your images, select “Send Link” from the image viewer toolbar. Enter the recipient’s email address and create a password, and click on “Get Link.” If multiple exams are to be shared, click “Select More Studies” and select the necessary exams. To paste this link into an email, select “Copy Link.” If you want to send the link using your default email software, select “Send Link Via Email.” An email is generated by your default email account. Send the recipient the password for the link in a separate message. The link to the images activates approximately 15 minutes after it is created and expires in 14 days. You can also download your images by selecting “Download Study” from the image viewer toolbar. Reports will not be downloaded with the images. You will need to print the reports for your MyChart account or from the report viewer in the image viewer. Reports are available by clicking the document icon next to the study at the top of the image viewer. If you need to view your images before the report is available, log in to your NYU Langone Health MyChart account and select the “Menu” option and then click on “View Radiology Images.” Your most recent exam will open with all other exams viewable in the timeline at the top of the viewer. If you are experiencing technical difficulties, please contact our technical support team at At NYU Langone Health, we go to great lengths to ensure your medical information is securely stored in a single electronic health record, accessible through our . This means you and each of your health providers can view your medical history, lab results, prescriptions, and more at the click of a button. Using one medical record across our health system helps to integrate and streamline services—whether you are connecting with Virtual Urgent Care, seeing your primary care doctor, or undergoing imaging. The NYU Langone Health app also allows you to schedule appointments, make electronic payments, send private and secure electronic messages to your health providers, and grant medical record access to a trusted family member or caregiver. Liver Transplant Program 212-263-8133 Living Liver Donation Experts at the Liver Transplant Program, a part of the , provide care for adults and children in need of a liver transplant. We also offer complete medical and surgical care for people who have a wide range of acute or chronic liver disease, including hepatitis B and C ; cholestatic liver disease; sclerosing cholangitis; acute fulminant liver failure; hepatocellular carcinoma, meaning liver cancer ; and biliary tract disorders. Leaders in Liver Transplant We are the No. 1 liver transplant program in New York State, based on the SRTR outcomes of fast transplant rates and high patient survival. According to the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR), which tracks data related to solid-organ transplants in the United States, we are the top liver transplant program in New York and have a 100-percent one-year survival rate for people who receive a liver from a living donor. We are also one of the top centers in New York for getting a deceased donor liver faster and for our one-year survival rate for recipients. Care for children with liver-related conditions is provided through our Pediatric Liver Transplant Program , part of . Through our Latino Liver Program , we provide the most medically advanced and culturally conscious care to Hispanic and Latino/a/x children and adults who need or may need a liver transplant or liver surgery. Your Liver The liver is the largest solid organ in the human body, located under the rib cage on the upper right side of the abdomen. It has many life-sustaining functions, making it one of the most important organs in the body. It aids digestion by breaking down and storing nutrients, including fats, proteins, carbohydrates, vitamins, and minerals. It aids circulation by filtering and processing blood to remove harmful substances. The liver is also responsible for manufacturing proteins that enable blood to clot. Support the Liver Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our work in liver transplantation. Injury to the liver from conditions such as hepatitis, liver cancer, metabolic dysfunction liver disease, or drug toxicity, excessive alcohol consumption, or nutritional deficiencies can lead to acute liver failure or chronic scarring, known as cirrhosis. The damaged liver is unable to carry out its many functions. People with these conditions may experience progressively worsening symptoms. Our hepatology, transplant hepatology, and surgery teams provide diagnosis and treatment for all liver conditions. For some people with severe or advanced liver disease, a liver transplant may be their best treatment option. When a Liver Transplant Is Needed If you have been referred for a liver transplant evaluation, your physician has recognized these signs of liver failure, and a transplant may be your best option. There are two sources of liver donation: from a living donor , which is someone willing to donate a piece of their liver, and from a deceased donor, whose family has consented to donate the entire liver. In the United States, deceased donors are the most common source of livers for transplant. NYU Langone’s renowned liver and transplant specialists diagnose liver conditions and help you weigh your treatment options to determine whether a transplant is the best approach. We conduct liver transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location and on Long Island. Other Types of Liver Surgery Our surgeons also specialize in the following procedures. Hepatobiliary Surgery Our specialists perform nontransplant to manage a variety of diseases affecting the liver, bile duct, and gallbladder. Advanced techniques, including minimally invasive and conventional surgery, are used to treat people with these conditions. Procedures include the following: surgical removal of benign and malignant diseases of the liver, including hepatocellular carcinoma surgical repair or removal of the gallbladder and bile duct to treat people with benign and malignant disease laparoscopic repair of bile duct injuries and bile duct stones laparoscopic gallbladder removal Surgery for Hepatocellular Carcinoma Surgery for hepatocellular carcinoma involves removing the diseased portion of the liver. This usually includes the tumor and surrounding tissue. The patient’s liver is able to regenerate within a few weeks, depending on the size of the portion removed. For more information, call 212-263-8133 or email NYUTxpLiverProgram@NYULangone.org Our doctors are leaders in the field of liver transplantation. Patrick G. Northup MD Liver Transplant Medical Director Karim J. Halazun Liver Transplant Surgical Director AnnMarie Liapakis Living Donor Liver Transplant Medical Director Adam Griesemer Living Donor Liver Transplant Surgical Director David M. Feldman Hepatologist Viviana Figueroa Diaz Ira M. Jacobson Saikiran M. Kilaru Raiya Sarwar Feng Su Alejandro Torres-Hernandez Transplant Surgeon View All 11 Doctors & Schedule Affiliated Programs & Centers Our Liver Transplant Program is part of one of the country’s leading organ transplant centers. Our program specialists offer care for children with liver-related conditions. Culturally conscious care for Hispanic and Latino children and adults is available through our Latino Liver Program. Living Liver Donor Information A liver donation may come from a living donor. We understand that the decision to have is life changing. Our transgender healthcare team provides support and education to help you and your loved ones know what to expect throughout the gender-affirming surgery process. As your surgical date approaches, we schedule one-on-one preoperative education visits with our nursing team. For those seeking genital surgery, we host classes with former patients who can share their experiences and introduce you to nurses and other staff who provide care in the hospital. Preoperative and postoperative photographs of procedure outcomes are available at the time of your surgical consultation. Referrals to mental health professionals who can support your emotional and physical wellbeing are also available. Presurgical Requirements There are certain requirements that need to be fulfilled before surgery, including surgical referral letters from mental health professionals and clinicians who provide hormone therapy; insurance authorization, which is done by our office; and hair removal for people having vaginoplasty or phalloplasty. Surgical Referral Letters Our surgeons follow the standards of care guidelines provided by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH). This requires obtaining letters from your mental health professional and the clinician who managed your hormone therapy. We provide referrals to mental health professionals who can assist with letter writing and support your emotional wellbeing during this process. Here are suggestions for what to include in your surgery recommendation letter Insurance Authorization Our office makes every effort to obtain insurance authorization after surgery has been scheduled. Please confirm that your insurance plan includes gender-affirming benefits before consultation. We offer a guide to verifying your health insurance benefits Occasionally, our efforts to authorize procedures are not successful even for those with gender-affirming surgery benefits, and in these instances we may refer patients to options for no- or low-cost legal assistance. Hair Removal If your surgical plan includes vaginoplasty or phalloplasty, permanent hair removal by either electrolysis or laser treatment is required before surgery. Please message us through your for details on hair removal requirements. We are located in Manhattan. 646-501-4481 At NYU Langone’s Face Transplant Program, part of the and under the leadership of , our experts have performed multiple face transplants. These include the first face transplant in New York State the world’s first whole-eye and partial-face transplant We are pioneers in face transplant surgery, as one of only a handful of medical centers in the United States—and the only one in New York State—with a dedicated program for face transplants. Research Program We have a clinical research study open to selected patients who have sustained facial trauma or disfigurement, burns, and acquired malformations of the face. Pioneers in Face Transplant Surgery A face transplant is an incredibly complex procedure that requires the expertise of more than 100 physicians, nurses, medical staff, and support staff. This surgery involves the transplantation of facial tissue from a deceased donor to a person with a severe facial deformity. A face transplant has the potential to transform a person’s life by restoring function, appearance, and sensation in the face, as well as enhancing overall quality of life. VIDEO: Aaron James received a whole-eye and partial-face transplant. We use the most advanced three-dimensional (3D) imaging technology before and during the surgery to create a model of the donor’s face, map out the complex procedure for the recipient, develop a plan to achieve maximum aesthetic and functional results, and guide the entire operation. As innovators, our experts in the Face Transplant Program continue to perform research to improve all aspects of this procedure. Recently, our surgeons achieved the shortest wait time of approximately 18 months, from initial injury to the face transplant surgery, for a patient. This substantial reduction in wait time allows for better physical and emotional recovery for our patients. “I am very grateful to be given a second chance.” Joe, Age 22 Read All Face Transplant Patient Stories Our surgeons’ experience and expertise have also helped them reduce the length of the surgery itself, which lowers the risk of complications for patients. This reduced surgery time helps to decrease the amount of time a patient stays in the hospital after the procedure, allowing them to return home sooner. After our patients leave the hospital, they continue outpatient rehabilitation therapy through , which often involves a combination of physical therapy, occupational therapy, and speech therapy. They also take anti-rejection medications to help the body’s response to the new organ, and NYU Langone’s new anti-rejection therapies are helping to provide better outcomes for our patients. Groundbreaking Transplant Procedures Using the cutting-edge technology and expansive operating rooms found in NYU Langone’s , our highly skilled surgical teams simultaneously operate on donors and recipients to perform innovative transplant procedures. Whole-Eye and Partial-Face Transplant Building on the surgical expertise gained from our previous face transplant procedures, our team was the first to perform a whole-eye and partial-face transplant. Our surgeons transplanted the donor’s entire left eye and a portion of the face to the recipient, helping to restore appearance. This procedure demonstrates how our team continues to embrace innovation in the field of face transplantation. Face and Double Hand Transplant Our team was also the first in the world to successfully transplant both hands to the mid-forearm and the full face of a single donor to the same recipient. The groundbreaking success of this combination transplant procedure illustrates our team’s dedication to taking on new challenges and advancing the field of transplantation. If you are a physician or a patient who would like more information about our face transplant services, please contact us at 646-501-4481 or email FaceTransplant@NYULangone.org Whole-Eye & Partial-Face Transplant Is a World First Podcast: Rising Above the Challenges of COVID-19 Face & Double Hand Transplant at NYU Langone Is Successful Man Receives First Successful Face & Double Hand Transplant NYU Langone Performs First Successful Face & Hand Transplant 22-Year-Old Receives First Successful Face & Hand Transplant Podcast: Would You Risk It All for a New Face? A Novel Approach to Preventing Face Transplant Rejection A New Face & a Second Chance Imaging Services for Referring Physicians The board-certified radiologists at NYU Langone specialize in acquiring and interpreting images for specific parts of the body or specific diseases. We refine our clinical skills by collaborating with colleagues to review the care plans of patients and share clinical expertise at professional conferences. We are consistently adding new services, improving our imaging with state-of-the-art MRI and CT scanners, and enhancing the way we communicate with our referrers with new tools, such as the multimedia report, in order to better serve our physicians and patients. The multimedia report is a new way of communicating with our clinicians that we are currently working on and preparing for widespread use at NYU Langone. The multimedia report is an enhanced, easy-to-use imaging report that includes embedded images that link the report to a corresponding imaging study, making it easier to understand the study’s important findings. Preauthorization Services In a continuous effort to better serve referring physicians and patients, NYU Langone Radiology offers preauthorization services for diagnostic radiology services such as MRI, CT scans, and PET/CT scans. Our team can initiate and obtain preauthorization, allowing your office to focus its time on other patient care needs. We follow up on health insurance requirements throughout the process, and notify your office if additional information is needed. To request information about the preauthorization process, email nyuradiologygetauth@nyulangone.org to have a physician liaison contact your office to review program specifics. You can also fill out our preauthorization form and email it to us. Questions About Reports or Imaging Exams If you have questions about a radiology report or imaging examination, please call our ombudsman at 212-263-5222 between 8:00AM and 6:00PM, Monday through Friday. Learn More About Our Expertise subspecialties, research, and training programs Lung Transplant Program 550 First Avenue View Location Details 866-838-5864 At the Lung Transplant Program, a part of the , we are dedicated to managing advanced lung diseases. We offer people 12 years of age and older effective treatment options and provide excellent care through every stage of the lung transplant process. Treatment for children is provided at the Pediatric Kidney Transplant Program through Excellent One-Year Survival One-year survival after lung transplantation is 94.19 percent. Our excellent 94.19 percent one-year survival rate in adults after transplantation—combined with our patients getting a transplant faster, low mortality on the transplant list, and the high volume of transplants we perform—makes us the top-ranked lung transplant center in the country, as calculated by the Scientific Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR). Our doctors may recommend a single- or double-lung transplant for people with chronic, end-stage lung disease when maximum medical therapy offers no relief or when no effective therapy exists. In 2023, 97 percent of our lung transplants were bilateral, leading to better outcomes for our patients. People who have one of the following conditions may be candidates for a lung transplant: interstitial lung diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis sarcoidosis , hypersensitivity pneumonitis, pulmonary manifestations of collagen vascular disease, eosinophilic granuloma, and lymphangiomyomatosis (LAM) pulmonary vascular disorders, such as primary pulmonary hypertension obstructive lung diseases, such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) , emphysema, and alpha 1 antitrypsin deficiency bronchiectasis , including cystic fibrosis other rare conditions that affect the lungs Your physician or pulmonologist may refer you to the NYU Langone Transplant Institute for evaluation, or you may contact us yourself. This does not mean automatic acceptance as a transplant candidate. Rather, it’s the beginning of an evaluation process that determines whether a lung transplant is the right choice for you, and whether you are a suitable candidate for the procedure. Your First Visit Support the Lung Transplant Program Make a monetary donation to support our leading lung transplant program. During your first visit, our lung transplant team meets with you to review your medical records and radiology films. You are asked to complete a six-minute walking test to determine how far you’re able to walk during that time and to measure your oxygen levels. You complete this test at every subsequent visit, and doctors measure the results each time against those from your first visit. Next, one of our transplant physicians meets with you to discuss your medical history and conduct a complete physical examination. If the physician determines that you’re a candidate to begin transplant evaluation testing, our transplant nurse coordinator schedules additional tests that begin approximately two weeks after your initial visit. Lung Transplant Evaluation Once our experts begin your lung transplant evaluation, our transplant nurse coordinator schedules tests and consultations with members of the lung transplant team, including the following: radiology tests cardiac catheterization and other cardiac tests, such as an echocardiogram and 12-lead electrocardiogram (EKG) lab work, such as a blood test to check for antibodies in the blood, blood type test, chemistries, complete blood count (CBC), hepatitis panel, HIV test, and immunoglobulin panel meetings with a social worker, financial coordinator, dietitian, pharmacist, and lung transplant surgeon In addition to examining the results of the evaluation, our team considers the type and severity of lung disease, symptoms, and your age. Throughout the process, we continually consider whether you are a suitable candidate for a lung transplant and make sure that you and your family have all the necessary information to make an informed decision. If our team determines that you are a lung transplant candidate, we help you prepare for candidacy. Based on the results of your evaluation tests, you are assigned a Lung Composite Allocation Score, or CAS, and our transplant nurse coordinator places you on the United Network of Organ Sharing (UNOS) national waiting list. Your place on the list is determined by your CAS and your blood type. Once you are on the waiting list, you must be prepared for surgery whenever donor lungs become available. We conduct lung transplant evaluations and provide pre- and post-transplant outpatient care at our Manhattan location. After Lung Transplant Surgery In the months after your transplant, you have frequent checkups with our team. At these checkups, our experts make sure you are doing well, adjust your medications if necessary, and monitor you for infections or other complications. Our lung transplant team pioneered the use of remote health monitoring after lung transplant and that reduce the need for checkups in person. Treatment for Chronic Thromboembolic Pulmonary Hypertension Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension, or CTEPH, is high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs caused by repeated blood clots or clots that do not dissolve. Our cardiothoracic surgeons perform the recommended treatment for CTEPH, which is a pulmonary thromboendarterectomy. During this highly precise surgery, you are placed on a heart–lung machine—a device that pumps oxygenated blood to your body—as the surgeon carefully clears the blood vessels from the inside. This allows blood to again flow normally through the previously blocked areas. For additional information or to make an appointment, please call our team at 866-838-LUNG (866-838-5864) or email us at LungTxp@NYULangone.org Our doctors are leaders in the field of lung transplantation. Luis F. Angel Lung Transplant Medical Director Stephanie H. Chang Lung Transplant Surgical Director Justin C. Chan Cardiac Surgeon Travis C. Geraci Thoracic Surgeon Melissa B. Lesko DO Pulmonologist Jake G. Natalini Critical Care Specialist Darya Rudym 7 Our Lung Transplant Program is part of the NYU Langone Transplant Institute. CTEPH Program Doctors at our Lung Transplant Program may work with CTEPH Program specialists. Our Location 550 First Avenue, New York, NY, 10016 Innovative Study Aims to Increase Donor Lungs from Unexpected Deaths First-Ever Robotic Double Lung Transplant Complete NYU Langone’s Fully Robotic Lung Transplant Is First in U.S. How to Schedule an Imaging Appointment All imaging appointments at NYU Langone can be scheduled by phone. Many types can also be scheduled using the Schedule Using Our App If your NYU Langone doctor has ordered an imaging exam, you can schedule most appointments using the NYU Langone Health app. Please note that you must have an order from your physician to schedule an imaging appointment. If you do not have this order, please obtain one from your physician before contacting us to schedule. Schedule an Imaging Appointment by Phone Please call our scheduling associates at the numbers below, depending on the location of the imaging center. Manhattan: 212-263-8868 Brooklyn: 929-455-3100 Queens and Long Island: 516-222-2022 Staten Island: 718-605-6500 If your doctor provided you with a paper prescription, please have it available when you call. Please also have your insurance card available. If you are scheduling an MRI and you have an implant, have your implant card available as well. Schedule an Imaging Appointment Online If the doctor who ordered your imaging exam is not part of the NYU Langone network or if you have a paper prescription for the imaging exam, you must call to make an appointment. If your NYU Langone doctor ordered an imaging exam, you can self-schedule most appointments by following the steps below: Log in to the app with your username and password. Once you are logged in, all imaging exams that are available for scheduling appear on the home screen. Click or tap on the “Schedule Now” button and follow the prompts to schedule your appointment. Procedures and some imaging exams cannot currently be self-scheduled. Please call us to schedule your appointment. If you don’t yet have the NYU Langone Health app, download the app from the App Store Google Play . Log in to the app with your NYU Langone Health MyChart username and password. If you don’t have a MyChart account, you can create your account now After Scheduling Your Appointment You can use the NYU Langone Health app to complete questionnaires before your visit, and to view arrival and preparation instructions. After your appointment, you can use the app to read your results and view and share the exam images. Insurance Authorization for Imaging Services Some imaging exams require insurance preauthorization, depending on the exam and your insurance carrier. After you schedule an appointment, our preauthorization team reviews your information and contacts your insurance carrier or referring physician. If authorization is not received by three business days before your exam, we contact you to reschedule your appointment. If you have questions about billing or insurance for imaging services, please call , weekdays from 8:30AM to 4:30PM. What to Bring to Your Exam Please bring the following to your appointment: a list of your current medications your insurance card a form of identification with your picture on it a prescription or written request for the imaging exam, if provided by your physician Radiation safety is a top priority when you receive at NYU Langone. Small amounts of radiation are used in medical imaging, such as X-rays nuclear medicine studies, to produce detailed images of the human body. For example, a chest X-ray gives you about the same amount of radiation as you would get from taking four airplane flights from New York to Los Angeles. While the small amount of radiation used in medical imaging is unlikely to cause harm, we use the lowest amount of radiation necessary to produce diagnostic images because of the potential risk. We continually strive to find the right balance between producing high-quality images and minimizing the potential harm to patients. Latest Technology to Reduce Radiation Doses In our ongoing efforts to protect our patients, we invest in the latest technology that can deliver higher-quality images at lower radiation doses. We also continually monitor the radiation produced by our equipment, and submit these values to the American College of Radiology’s national database that tracks radiation doses from CT scanners across the country. We regularly compare our radiation doses against other institutions to ensure that we are exceeding the current radiation safety standards of the medical imaging community. Our CT scanners are equipped with software that monitors the amount of radiation you are exposed to during your exam. If there is a risk that the radiation exposure may increase beyond our threshold for safety, our CT technologists can modify the exam to ensure that only a safe level of radiation is emitted. During an X-ray, each study is focused on the area of the body that is of most interest to your doctor, to avoid any unnecessary radiation to other parts of your body. Our X-ray technologists also use radiation shields and aprons to protect areas that are sensitive to radiation and not necessary for the imaging tests, such as the breasts in women and reproductive organs in men and women. We also use tracking and monitoring systems to ensure that our