Preventing Chronic Diseases and Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children. Apart from the programs outlined above, which are supported directly by NYULH as part of the Community Service Plan, NYULH has numerous community programs that address unmet community need. See NYU Langone Health in the Community: 2017 2018. VI. Dissemination The Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan, together with our Progress Reports, are conspicuously posted on the NYULH internal and external websites with instructions for downloading and in a format that, when accessed, downloaded, viewed, and printed in hard copy, exactly reproduces the image of the report. (http://www.nyulangone.org/our story/community health needs assessment service plan). An individual seeking access to these materials is not required to create an account or provide any personally identifiable information. Hard copies of the Community Health Needs Assessment, Community Service Plan and Progress Reports are available without charge to anyone upon request and are regularly distributed to Community Board members, policymakers, local health centers, community based organizations, community members, and other interested stakeholders. Through our outreach and engagement activities, we continually seek to keep the community informed about our activities and to get feedback and input. This year, we distributed the Red Hook Needs and Assets Assessment to over 50 people and organizations, including community residents, 72 policymakers, partners, community groups and colleagues. Additional data and materials are also publicly posted for broad public use (https://redhookchnaa.wordpress.com). Similarly, we shared the Southwest Brooklyn Health and Housing Needs Assessment with a large group of stakeholders and others who are interested in developing health and housing related initiatives. The Executive Summary of our Community Health Needs Assessment and Community Service Plan (available here) shares our analysis and conclusions in a more accessible format for a broader constituency. This document, which is written at an 8th grade literacy level, has been translated into Arabic, Chinese, and Spanish. In addition, information about Community Service Plan projects has been presented at conferences and in presentations to Primary Care Residents, medical students and undergraduate students, often in collaboration with community partners. We plan to conduct similar internal and external presentations for the 2019 2021 CHNA CSP. VII. Community Engagement We have continued to engage our partners and the broader community through a variety of mechanisms with the objective of creating an infrastructure for the ongoing exchange of information and ideas and a platform for continued cross sector work at the neighborhood level to address high priority public health issues. We embrace collaboration as the foundation of successful service development and implementation, and actively seek community involvement as part of our program management philosophy. These relationships have provided ongoing opportunities for interaction, including the joint development of programming. The Community Service Plan Coordinating Council, composed of NYU Langone Health faculty and staff from across the institution, leadership and staff of our community partners, and other interested partners and policymakers, continues to meet every three months now alternating between the Manhattan and Brooklyn campuses of NYU Langone Health. The Council coordinates Community Service Plan projects, ensuring that they are meeting milestones, maximizing their impact, and fostering collaboration across institutions and sectors. We continue to find opportunities to learn and to work across projects and with colleagues throughout the institution and in the community. We also use this forum to distribute information about the NYULH Financial Assistance Policy. Within the past year, a Network group has formed that includes faculty and staff (from within NYU Langone Health and from community partners), to explore cross cutting topics, thus far 73 including: the use of photovoice, how to present quantitative and qualitative data to community members, survey development, recruitment techniques. We also periodically invite outside speakers to the meetings of the Coordinating Council. Over the past several years, topics have included: reverse migration separation, affordable housing, Overcoming Challenges to Mental Health Services for Asian New Yorkers, precision medicine and social determinants of health, cancer screening outreach, and proposed changes to the Public Charge rule. Members of the Coordinating Council also attend presentations of interest at the NYULH. Over a dozen leaders and staff from our community partners regularly attend the Department of Population Health’s annual Health and… conference, which brings together leading investigators, policymakers, practitioners, and community leaders to better leverage the intersection between Health and… its many determinants. Program and administrative staff participate in a broad range of place based and issue based networks to stay abreast of emerging needs and promising practices. We continue to meet with advocates, service providers, and community groups, including committees of Manhattan Community Boards 3 and 6, and Brooklyn Community Board 7 to provide regular updates and opportunities for input. See Appendix B for the list of these networks and agencies. Finally, the joining of the Manhattan CSP with the CSP and other community based programs in Sunset Park and now Red Hook continues to enrich the Community Service Plan across the institution. We have now integrated our efforts and deployed our collective resources and expertise to strengthen our programs. VIII. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures The Coordinating Council will continue to oversee program implementation, work collaboratively to find points of synergy across programs and neighborhoods, and assess progress and make mid course corrections. In addition, each program collects data about levels of participation, participant satisfaction, and impact on health and well being. This is done through attendance records, surveys, and other forms of data collection. Attached as Appendix F is a table summarizing preliminary goals and performance measures, together with sources of data to be used to measure outcomes. Appendices A. Data Sources and References Consulted B. Input from Persons Who Represent the Broad Interests of the Community C. Red Hook Needs and Assets Assessment D. The Southwest Brooklyn Health and Housing Consortium: Needs Assessment and Priorities in Sunset Park E. Evidence Base for Programs F. Anticipated Impact and Performance Measures Appendix A Data Sources and References Consulted I. Secondary Data 500 Cities Project Data Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Health behaviors and health outcomes by census tract. Data obtained from: • NYU Langone Health City Health Dashboard (2015, two year modeled estimates) American Community Survey US Census Bureau. Demographic, housing, health insurance, and socioeconomic factors by Public Use Microdata Areas (Community District approximations) and census tracts. Data obtained from: • US Census Bureau American Fact Finder (2011 2015; 2013 2017) • NYC Department of City Planning Population Fact Finder (2006 2010; 2012 2016) Community Health Survey NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Health behaviors, health outcomes and access to care by race/ethnicity, neighborhood poverty and housing type. Data obtained from: • NYC Health Department EpiQuery (2002 2017) Housing and Vacancy Survey NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development Housing conditions such as presence of mice, rats or roaches; use of supplemental heat. Data obtained from: • NYC Health Department Environment and Health Data Portal (2014) NYC Public Housing Residents NYC Housing Authority Number of residents living in public housing by neighborhood. Data obtained from: • NYC Health Department Neighborhood Health Atlas (2016) Primary Land Use Tax Lot Output (PLUTO TM) New York City Department of City Planning Residential housing units and tax parcel ownership. Data obtained from: • NYC Department of City Planning PLUTO 17v1.1 (Jan 2018) Rental Subsidies NYU Furman Center Housing choice vouchers. Data obtained from: • NYU Furman Center CoreData.nyc (2009 2016) Teen Births Vital Statistics NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Teen birth rates by Community District. Data obtained from: • NYC Health Department EpiQuery (2014 2016) II. Reports 1. Austensen M, Been V, Inaraja Vera L, et al. State of New York City’s Housing and Neighborhoods in 2016. New York University Furman Center; 2017. http://furmancenter.org/research/sonychan/2016 report . Accessed February 27, 2019. 2. The City of New York Manhattan Community Board 3. District Needs Statement for Fiscal Year 2020. https://www1.nyc.gov/html/mancb3/downloads/cb3docs/CB3 DistrictNeeds FY20.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 3. King L, Hinterland K, Dragan KL, Driver CR, Harris TG, Gwynn RC, Linos N, Barbot O, Bassett MT. Community Health Profiles 2015, Brooklyn Community District 6: Park Slope and Carroll Gardens. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; 2015. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/data/2015chp bk6.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 4. Performance Tracking and Analytics Department. NYCHA Development Data Book 2018. New York City Housing Authority; 2018. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/nycha/downloads/pdf/pdb2017.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 5. NYSmokeFree. Roswell Park Cancer Institute. https://www.nysmokefree.com/NYSAction/PublicPage2.aspx . Accessed February 27, 2019. 6. New York State Department of Health. Prevention Agenda 2019 2014: Description of Population Demographics and General Health Status, New York State 2018. https://www.health.ny.gov/prevention/prevention_agenda/2019 2024/docs/sha/general_description.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 7. King L, Deng WQ. Health Disparities among Asian New Yorkers. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; Epi Data Brief (100); March 2018. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/databrief100.pdf. Accessed February 27, 2019. 8. Li W, Sun Y, Huynh M. Mortality among Chinese New Yorkers. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; Epi Data Brief (91); June 2017. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/databrief91.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 9. Health Research & Educational Trust. Social determinants of health series: Housing and the role of hospitals. Health Research & Educational Trust; August 2017. https://www.aha.org/system/files/hpoe/Reports HPOE/2017/housing role of hospitals.pdf. Accessed February 27, 2019. 10. Egger JR, Bartley KF, Benson L, Bellino D, Kerker B. Childhood Obesity is a Serious Concern in New York City: Higher Levels of Fitness Associated with Better Academic Performance. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; NYC Vital Signs; 2009. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/csi/csi nyc fitnessgram vital signs.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 11. Olson C, Berger M, Day S, Konty K. Childhood Overweight, Physical Activity and “Screen time” in New York City. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene; Epi Data Brief (1); October 2010. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/databrief1.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 12. Hinterland K, Naidoo M, King L, et al. Community Health Profiles 2018, Manhattan Community District 3: Lower East Side and Chinatown. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. 2018. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/data/2018chp mn3.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 13. Hinterland K, Naidoo M, King L, et al. Community Health Profiles 2018, Brooklyn Community District 7: Sunset Park. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. 2018. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/data/2018chp bk7.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 14. Metty A, Garcia A, Isaac L, Linos N, Barbot O, Bassett MT. Take Care New York 2020: Every Neighborhood, Every New Yorker, Everyone’s Health Counts. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. October 2015. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/tcny/tcny 2020.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. 15. Bethell CD, Davis MB, Gombojav N, Stumbo S, Powers K. Issue Brief: A National and Across State Profile on Adverse Childhood Experiences among Children and Possibilities to Heal and Thrive. Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. October 2017. http://www.cahmi.org/projects/adverse childhood experiences aces/ . Accessed February 27, 2019. 16. Roods K, Jasek J, Farley SM. Tobacco Use among New York City Men and Boys. New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. Epi Data Brief (103); June 2018. https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/doh/downloads/pdf/epi/databrief103.pdf . Accessed February 27, 2019. III. Peer reviewed publications: references consulted Abuelezam NN, El Sayed AM, Galea S. The Health of Arab Americans in the United States: An Updated Comprehensive Literature Review. Frontiers in Public Health. 2018;6(262). Araneta MR, Kanaya AM, Hsu WC, et al. Optimum BMI cut points to screen Asian Americans for Type 2 Diabetes. Diabetes Care. 2015; 38: 814 820. Berkman ND, Dewalt DA, Pignone MP, Sheridan SL, Lohr KN, Lux L, et al. Literacy and health outcomes. Evid Rep Technol Assess (Summ). 2004;(87):1 8. Barnes PM, Adams PF, Powell Griner E. Health Characteristics of the Asian Adult Population: United States, 2004 2006. PsycEXTRA Dataset. 2008. doi:10.1037/e407192008 001. Berkman ND, Sheridan SL, Donahue KE, Halpern DJ, Crotty K. Low Health Literacy and Health Outcomes: An Updated Systematic Review. Annals of Internal Medicine. 2011;155(2):97. doi:10.7326/0003 4819 155 2 201107190 00005. Bernard LS, Wexler DJ, Rivara FP, Thompson RS. Material Need Support Interventions for Diabetes Prevention and Control: A Systematic Review. Current Diabetes Reports.2009;15(2), 574. Burke LE, Dunbar Jacob JM, Hill MN. Compliance with cardiovascular disease prevention strategies: a review of the research. Annals of Behavioral Medicine. 1997;19(3):239 263 Dewalt DA, Berkman ND, Sheridan S, Lohr KN, Pignone MP. Literacy and health outcomes: a systematic review of the literature. J Gen Intern Med. 2004;19(12):1228 1239. Doak CC, Doak LG, Root JH. Teaching patients with low literacy skills. 2nd ed. Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott; 1996. El Sayed AM, Galea S. The health of Arab Americans living in the United States: a systematic review of the literature. BMC Public Health. 2009;9(1):272. Fei K, Rodriguez Lopez JS, Ramos M, et al. Racial and Ethnic Subgroup Disparities in Hypertension Prevalence, New York City Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2013 2014. Preventing Chronic Disease. 2017;14. doi:10.5888/pcd14.160478. Giambrone AE, Gerber LM, Rodriguez Lopez JS, Trinh Shevrin C, Islam N, Thorpe LE. Hypertension prevalence in New York City adults: unmasking undetected racial/ethnic variation, NYC HANES 2004. Ethnicity & disease. 2016;26(3):339. Hayes L, White M, Unwin N, et al. Patterns of physical activity and relationship with risk markers for cardiovascular disease and diabetes in Indian, Pakistani, Bangladeshi and European adults in a UK population. Journal of Public Health. 2002;24(3):170 178. Hsu Y H, Mao C L, Wey M. Antihypertensive medication adherence among elderly Chinese Americans. Journal of Transcultural Nursing. 2010;21(4):297 305. Islam NS, Tandon D, Mukherji R, et al. Understanding barriers to and facilitators of diabetes control and prevention in the New York City Bangladeshi community: a mixed methods approach. American journal of public health. 2012;102(3):486 490. Islam NS, Wyatt LC, Kapadia SB, Rey MJ, Trinh Shevrin C, Kwon SC. Diabetes and associated risk factors among Asian American subgroups in New York City. Diabetes care. 2013;36(1):e5 e5. Kandula NR, Lauderdale DS. Leisure time, non leisure time, and occupational physical activity in Asian Americans. Annals of epidemiology. 2005;15(4):257 265. Klatsky AL, Armstrong MA, Cardiovascular risk factors among Asian Americans living in northern California. American Journal of Public Health. 1991; 81(11): 1423 1428. doi:10.2105/ajph81.11.1423. Kushel MB, Gupta R, Gee L, Haas JS. Housing Instability and Food Insecurity as Barriers to Health Care among Low Income Americans. Journal of General Internal Medicine.2006; 21(1), 71 77. Lee JWR, Brancati FL, Yeh H C. Trends in the Prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes in Asians Versus Whites: Results from the United States National Health Interview Survey, 1997 2008. Diabetes Care. 2011;34(2):353 357. doi:10.2337/dc10 0746. Li S, Kwon SC, Weerasinghe I, Rey MJ, Trinh Shevrin C. Smoking among Asian Americans: acculturation and gender in the context of tobacco control policies in New York City. Health promotion practice. 2013;14(5_suppl):18S 28S. Li W W, Stewart AL, Stotts N, Froelicher ES. Cultural factors associated with antihypertensive medication adherence in Chinese immigrants. Journal of Cardiovascular Nursing. 2006;21(5):354 362. Miller E, Goldsworthy N, Wojtowicz A, Edens N. Family Nutrition Education Improves Healthy Eating and Preferences, but Children and Adults Differ in Behavioral Changes. Journal of Nutrition Education and Behavior. 2018;50(7). doi:10.1016/j.jneb.2018.04.095. Mohanty SA, Woolhandler S, Himmelstein DU, Bor DH. Diabetes and cardiovascular disease among Asian Indians in the United States. Journal of general internal medicine. 2005;20(5):474 478. Nielson Bohlman L PA, Kindig D, eds. Health literacy: a prescription to end confusion. Wash., DC: IOM National Academies Press; 2004. Patel VV, Rajpathak S, Karasz A. Bangladeshi immigrants in New York City: a community based health needs assessment of a hard to reach population. Journal of immigrant and minority health. 2012;14(5):767 773. Rianon NJ, Rasu RS. Metabolic syndrome and its risk factors in Bangladeshi immigrant men in the USA. Journal of immigrant and minority health. 2010;12(5):781 787. Rummo R, Kanchi R, Perlman S, Elbel B, Trinh Shevrin C, Thorpe L. Change in Obesity Prevalence among New York City Adults: the NYC Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 2004 and 2013 2014. Journal of Urban Health. 2018; 95: 787 799. Stella SY, Kwon SC, Wyatt L, Islam N, Trinh Shevrin C. Weighing in on the hidden Asian American obesity epidemic. Preventive medicine. 2015;73:6 9. Taira DA, Gelber RP, Davis J, Gronley K, Chung RS, Seto TB. Antihypertensive adherence and drug class among Asian Pacific Americans. Ethnicity and Health. 2007;12(3):265 281. Williams ED, Stamatakis E, Chandola T, Hamer M. Physical activity behaviour and coronary heart disease mortality among South Asian people in the UK: an observational longitudinal study. Heart. 2011;97(8):655 659. Wilson KM, Klein JD, Blumkin AK, Gottlieb M, Winickoff JP. Tobacco smoke exposure in children who live in multiunit housing. Pediatrics. 2011;127: 85 92. Wong CC, Mouanoutoua V, Chen M J, Gray K, Tseng W. Adherence with hypertension care among Hmong Americans. Journal of community health nursing. 2005;22(3):143 156. Yi SS, Thorpe LE, Zanowiak JM, Trinh Shevrin C, Islam NS. Clinical characteristics and lifestyle behaviors in a population based sample of Chinese and South Asian immigrants with hypertension. American journal of hypertension. 2016;29(8):941 947. Yin HS, Johnson M, Mendelsohn AL, Abrams MA, Sanders LM, Dreyer BP. The Health Literacy of Parents in the United States: A Nationally Representative Study. Pediatrics. 2009;124(Supplement 3). doi:10.1542/peds.2009 1162e. Yin HS, Sanders LM, Rothman RL, Shustak R, Eden SK, Shintani A, et al. Parent health literacy and "obesogenic" feeding and physical activity related infant care behaviors. J Pediatr. 2014;164(3):577 583.e571. PMCID: PMC3943839. Appendix B Input from Persons Who Represent the Broad Interests of the Community Meetings with public health experts: Agency Attendees Dates Airnyc ▪ Shoshanah Brown, Executive Director ▪ Enrico Cullen, Chief Strategy Officer June 2018 Asian Health & Social Service Coalition ▪ Access Nursing Services ▪ Alzheimer's Association NYC Chapter ▪ Americare ▪ Asian American Community Consultation Assoc. ▪ Beth Israel Medical Center ▪ Cabrini Center for Nursing And Rehabilitation/td> ▪ Charles B. Wang Community Health Center ▪ Chinese American Planning Council, Inc. ▪ Comprehensive Care Management Corp. ▪ FEGS ▪ Hamilton Madison House, Inc. ▪ Heart to Heart Home Care ▪ Henry Street Settlement ▪ Isabella Home Care ▪ Lantern (Lupus Asian Network) Hospital for Special ▪ Magellan Health Services ▪ Manhattan Legal Services ▪ Mental Health Association of NYC/ Asian LifeNet ▪ New York Asian Women's Center ▪ New York Downtown Hospital ▪ NY Organ Donor Network ▪ NYS OMH Creedmoor ▪ NYS South Beach Psychiatric Center ▪ NYS EPIC Program (Magellan Health Services) ▪ University Settlement Society Of NY ▪ VNSNY Multiple meetings and communication Asian Smokers Quitline (ASQ) ▪ Shu Hong Zhu, Principal Investigator ▪ Caroline Chen, Project Manager Multiple meetings and communication Bronx Health and Housing Consortium ▪ Bonnie Mohan, Executive Director ▪ Henie Lustgarten, Board President ▪ Multiple meetings and communication from 2017 to present Agency Attendees Dates Charles B. Wang Community Health Center ▪ Regina Lee, Chief Development Officer ▪ Loretta Au, Chief of Pediatrics ▪ Perry Pong, Chief Medical Officer ▪ Maggie Wong, Coordinator of Marketing Programs ▪ Jin Lu, Nurse Practitioner ▪ Rachelle Ocampo, Associate Director of Health Education ▪ Michelle Chen, Health Educator ▪ Lucas Lao, Health Coach Multiple meetings and communication Gouverneur Health ▪ Mary McCord, Director of Pediatrics ▪ Peter Davidson, Director of Medicine ▪ Karyn Singer, ACO Lead Physician ▪ Primary Care Residents ▪ Public Health Advocates ▪ Migdalia Hernandez, Health Home Referral Coordinator ▪ Rafael Dominguez, Senior Director, Marketing & Engagement Multiple meetings and communication Greater New York Hospitals Association ▪ Lloyd Bishop, Senior Vice President, Community Health Initiatives and Government Affairs ▪ Staff from Community Affairs/Community Health ▪ Orville Francis, AVP for Finance Multiple meetings and communication including large meeting with leadership on June 18, 2018 Healthfirst/DOHMH Pediatric Bundle ▪ Nora Chaves Healthfirst ▪ Abby Velikov NYC DOHMH Multiple meetings and communication HIV Health & Human Services Planning Council of NYC ▪ Multiple persons living with HIV/AIDS, service providers, and governmental representatives Multiple meetings Maimonides Medical Center ▪ Sara Kaplan Levenson, Executive Director, Brooklyn Health Home ▪ Shari Suchoff, Vice President, Population Health Policy and Strategy ▪ Josh Schiller, Attending Physician, ED ▪ Jason Staum, Social Worker, ED Multiple meetings and communication from April 2017 to present New York City Department of Education 0 3 Advisory Committee ▪ Jesssica Bialeci Director of Policy Division of Early Childhood Education ▪ Josh Wallack Deputy Chancellor for Early Childhood Education Monthly meetings January 2018 to present Agency Attendees Dates NYCDOHMH Bureau of the Primary Care information Project ▪ Sarah Shih, Assistant Commissioner Bureau of the PCIP ▪ Hang Pham Singer, Sr Director of Quality Improvement Multiple meetings New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene ▪ Shannon Farley, Bureau of Chronic Disease Prevention and Tobacco Control ▪ Pauline Ferrante, Community Liaison ▪ Victoria Grimshaw, Policy Analyst/Community Benefits Coordinator ▪ Jacqueline Kennedy, Partnerships for a Healthier NY ▪ Natalia Linos, Science Advisor ▪ Javier Lopez, Assistant Commissioner, Center for Health Equity ▪ Sarah Perl, Senior Advisor/Writer to the Commissioner ▪ Rishi Sood, Deputy Director of Policy, Bureau of Primary Care Access and Planning ▪ Ana Gallego, Director of Policy and Health Systems Analysis, Office of the First Deputy Commissioner ▪ Andriana Azarias, Senior Advisor, Special Projects ▪ Patrick Germain, Executive Director of Policy, Planning, and Strategic Data Use ▪ Xusana Davis, Director, Health & Housing Strategic Initiatives Multiple meetings and communication New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Brooklyn Community Action Team ▪ Molly Berman, Brooklyn Community Engagement Coordinator ▪ Staff representatives from:  El Puente  Peer Health Exchange  CAMBA  HEAT  THEO  North Brooklyn Prevention Coalition  New York City Teen Connection  Grand Street Settlement  Bedford YMCA  Bedford Stuyvesant Community Connections Monthly meetings New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene ▪ Patrick Pagen New York Knows Project Officer ▪ Brooklyn Knows partners Monthly meetings Agency Attendees Dates Brooklyn Knows Steering Committee New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Brooklyn Knows Youth Subcommittee “Brooklyn United” ▪ Patrick Pagen New York Knows Project Officer ▪ Youth and staff representatives from Community Healthcare Network, SUNY Downstate, Diaspora, Ali Forney Monthly meetings until fall 2017 New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Early Childhood Health & Development Unit Division of Family & Child Health ▪ Abigail M. (Jewkes) Velikov, PhD Senior Director, Early Childhood Health & Development Unit; Division of Family & Child Health Multiple communications New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Office of Faith Based Initiatives ▪ Borough of Brooklyn Interfaith Advisory Group High Blood Pressure Task Force, multiple organizations Multiple meetings and communication New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, Take Care New York (TCNY) Neighborhood Health Initiative Advisory Committee ▪ New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene ▪ Jewish Community Center of Greater Coney Island ▪ Family Health Centers at NYU Langone ▪ Northwest Bronx Community & Clergy Coalition ▪ Project Hospitality ▪ Public Health Solutions ▪ Rockaway Waterfront Alliance ▪ Staten Island Partnership for Community Wellness ▪ Washington Heights CORNER Project Multiple meetings and communication New York State Department of Health ▪ Sylvia Pirani, MPH, Director Office of Public Health Practice Multiple meetings and communication Agency Attendees Dates New York State Medicaid Redesign First 1,000 Days on Medicaid (New York State Department of Health, United Hospital Fund) ▪ Suzanne Brundage, Director Children’s Health Initiative of United Hospital Fund Multiple meetings and communication NYS Office of Mental Health ▪ Donna Bradbury, Associate Commissioner, Division of Integrated Community Services for Child and Families ▪ Presentation to Division (30 stakeholders) ▪ Presentation at all day conference: Innovative Practices in Prevention Science (policy makers, educations, NYS based government) Multiple meetings and 2013 to present Two meetings on 9/2018 and 1/2019 with stakeholders in Albany Presentation to Division on 5/4/2016 Conference presentation in Albany on 9/14/18 NY Links ▪ Multiple organizations associated with linkages to and retention in care and supports for Persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) in New York State Multiple meetings NYC Department of Education ▪ Office of Family and Community Engagement, Division of Early Childhood Education (DECE) ▪ Data & Analytics ▪ Research & Policy Support Group (RPSG) ▪ Joshua Wallack, Deputy Chancellor, Early Education and Student Enrollment ▪ Jill Resnick, Executive Director, Family and Community Engagement, DECE ▪ Alyse Erman, Thrive Director, DECE ▪ Adrienne Dominguez, Senior Executive Director, Data & Analytics ▪ Jeff Kitrosser, Family Engagement, DECE ▪ Kate Rockey, Research Manager, RPSG ▪ Matt Snyder, Diector of Team Organization and Special Projects, DECE Multiple meetings and communication NYC Health + Hospitals ▪ Kalpana Bhandarkar, Lead, Social Determinants ▪ Majorie Momplaisir Ellis, Senior Director, DSRIP, OneCity Health ▪ Kacia Phillips, Social Worker, Kings County Hospital Center ▪ Rasaq Sanni, Social Worker, Kings County Hospital Center ▪ Nichola Davis, Assit VP Chronic Disease Multiple meetings from fall 2018 to present Agency Attendees Dates New York Presbyterian/Brooklyn Methodist Hospital ▪ Nava Katz Birnberg, Asst. Vice President, Process, Integration, DSRIP ▪ Wendy Ann Plaza, Social Worker Regular meetings from October 2018 to present Providers of Health Care for the Homeless in New York City ▪ Brightpoint Health ▪ Callen Lorde Health Center ▪ Care for Homeless ▪ Covenant House ▪ Harlem United ▪ Housing Works ▪ ICL Health Care Choices ▪ Project Renewal ▪ New York Children’s Health Project, a Program of the Children’s Hospital at Montefiore & Children’s Health Fund ▪ The Floating Hospital ▪ William F. Ryan Community Health Center Multiple meetings United Hospital Fund ▪ Gregory Burke, Director, Innovation Strategies ▪ Kristina Ramos Callan, Program Manager, Program Initiatives ▪ Chad Shearer, Vice President for Policy; Director, Medicaid Institute Multiple meetings and communication Meetings with community groups and community leaders: Organizations Attendees Dates ArchCare ▪ Mashi Blech, Director, TimeBank ▪ Omayra Torres, Supervisor Multiple meetings and communication from January 2013 to present Asian Americans for Equality ▪ Chris Kui, Executive Director (former) ▪ Flora Ferng, Director of Programs ▪ Ken Ho, Program Coordinator ▪ Kenny Chen, Staff ▪ Ivy Au, Staff Multiple meetings and communication from September 2013 to present Breaking Ground ▪ Casey Burke, Program Director ▪ Ara Mendoza, Program Coordinator ▪ Eric Londregan, Clinical Coordinator Multiple meetings and communication from April 2017 to present Brooklyn Borough President’s Office ▪ Italia Granshaw, Deputy Director of Policy and Planning ▪ Anthony Drummond, Policy Analyst Meeting on August 2018 Organizations Attendees Dates Brooklyn College Community Partnership ▪ Jeremy Goren, Program Manager Multiple meetings and communication Brooklyn Family Justice Center ▪ Center leadership and direct service staff Multiple meetings and communication Brooklyn Pride ▪ Leadership and staff Multiple meetings and communication Brooklyn Public Library Common Sense Panel on Media and Young Children ▪ Rachel Payne Brooklyn Public Library January 2018 CAMBA, Inc. ▪ Joanne Oplustil, Executive Director ▪ Valerie Barton Richardson, Executive Vice President ▪ Michael Erhard, Senior Vice President for Health and Housing ▪ Micheal Maffai, Senior Program Manager ▪ Carol Rubenstein, Vice President, Single Adult Shelter Service Multiple meetings and communication Caribbean Women’s Health Association ▪ Cheryl Hall, Executive Director Multiple meetings and communication Center for Family Life, part of SCO Family of Services ▪ Julia Jean Francois, Co Director ▪ Julie Brockway, Co Director ▪ Helene Onserud, Program Director, PS 503/506 Multiple meetings and communication Chinatown Partnership ▪ Wellington Chen, Executive Director Multiple meetings and communication from September 2013 to present Chinatown YMCA Cornerstone @ Two Bridges Community Center ▪ Chi Yung, Center Director (former) ▪ Kingsley Boafo, Associate Director (former) Multiple meetings and communication Chinese American Medical Society (CAMS) ▪ Jamie Love, Administrator Multiple meetings from September 2015; presentation at Annual Scientific Conference November 2015 Coalition of Asian American Independent Practice Association (CAIPA) ▪ Peggy Sheng, Chief Operations Officer Multiple meetings and communication from January 2013 to present Community Board 3 (Manhattan) ▪ Susan Stetzer, District Manager ▪ Presentations to Human Services, Health, Disability and Seniors/Youth and Education Committee Multiple meetings and communication from September 2013 to present Organizations Attendees Dates Community Board 6 (Manhattan) ▪ Health, Senior and Disability Issues Committee Annual meetings Community Board 7 (Brooklyn) ▪ Jeremy Laufer, District Manager ▪ Cesar Zuniga, Community Board Chair ▪ Multiple community residents, businesses and organizations Multiple meetings and communication Delancey Street Associates/Essex Crossing ▪ Katie Archer, Director of Community Relations May 2019 Diaspora Community Services ▪ Carine Jocelyn, Chief Executive Officer Multiple meetings and communication Earth School ▪ Abbe Futterman, Principal ▪ Shirley Suarez, mental health professional ▪ Jocelyn Walsh, Parent Coordinator Monthly Meetings from September 2015 to March 2016 Empire BlueCross BlueShield HealthPlus ▪ Osiris Marte, Health Promotion Manager ▪ Elizabeth Oudens, Chief Clinical Officer, Clinical Management ▪ Nandita Bali, Strategy and Program Dev. Director Multiple meetings and communication Enterprise Community Partners, Inc. ▪ Elizabeth Zeldin, Director Regular meetings from April 2017 Fifth Avenue Committee ▪ Michelle De La Uz, Executive Director ▪ Jay Marcus, Director of Housing & Community Facility Development ▪ Aaron Shiffman, Executive Director, Brooklyn Workforce Innovations ▪ Marcela Mitaynes, Tenant Organizing & Advocacy Program Coordinator, Neighbors Helping Neighbors ▪ Aura Mejia, Neighbors Helping Neighbors Multiple meetings and communication Good Shepherd Services ▪ Kathy Gordon, Associate Executive Director ▪ Rachel Forsyth, Senior Director of Partnership Schools ▪ Shalini Schaeffer, Program Director Multiple meetings and communication Grand Street Guild Resident Association