quick learning curve,” says lead author and orthopedic surgeon Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery “It’s a large database study including all TSAs performed with computer navigation up to the time of publication. The comprehensive design, I think, is the real hallmark of this study.” Computer-Captured Measurements Dr. Virk and colleagues have used the CAN system for TSAs since 2018. Prior to each surgery, surgeons plan out the procedure on a computer using the system’s software. The preoperative plan includes determining the size and alignment of the glenoid implant in the coronal (inclination) and axial (version) planes. The plan is then transferred to a computer station, which is used inside the operating room. The navigation procedure involves use of multiple infrared trackers, which are placed on the surgical tools and on the patient’s shoulder; these trackers communicate with the computer station to generate a virtual 2D and 3D model of the patient’s shoulder on the computer screen. The surgeon uses real-time feedback from the computer station while performing surgery to implant the glenoid component with precision and accuracy, as determined preoperatively. Interactive Guidance The study showed minimal deviation in intraoperative execution of the preoperative plans with respect to version, inclination, and starting point on the glenoid face. Because the completion rate and deviation between preoperative and intraoperative execution are captured by the CAN system itself, Dr. Virk points out, the analysis is free of any potential bias from surgeon-reported data. The comprehensive design is the real hallmark of this study.” Additionally, the low rate of fractures of the coracoid bone, where the navigation tracker is attached next to the glenoid, suggests that the procedure is safe. “Having an interactive navigation tool allows me to make sure that what I have planned for a shoulder implant prior to surgery I can do with high accuracy using live feedback from a computer,” Dr. Virk says. “If I am doing shoulder replacement without any kind of feedback and relying purely on anatomic landmarks, that becomes very challenging in complex revision surgeries and in the presence of severe glenoid deformities.” Dr. Virk is a paid consultant for Exactech. Mandeep S. Virk, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery and chief of the Division of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery. He specializes in computer-navigated shoulder replacements as well as the Latarjet procedure, arthroscopic rotator cuff repairs, and labral repairs. Getting Clarity on Inpatient Falls after Knee Replacement Joshua C. Rozell, MD. Source: NYU Langone Health Inpatient falls after total knee arthroplasty (TKA) can lead to patient injury and delay postoperative recovery. Orthopedic surgeons often use adductor canal blocks (ACBs) during such surgeries to improve pain control, but some experts have raised concerns over whether the blocks might contribute to the loss of proprioception and motor or sensory function and predispose patients to falls. Tourniquets can improve perioperative visibility but have prompted similar concerns: that they could impair quadriceps muscle function and contribute to postoperative inpatient falls. “Using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement.” Joshua C. Rozell, MD of nearly 6,500 patients who underwent an elective TKA and stayed at least one night in the hospital at NYU Langone Health, however, found no association between fall incidence and the use of a tourniquet, an ACB, or both together. Instead, the patient safety study pointed to longer lengths of stay as increasing fall risk, leading to higher all-cause revision rates. “Our validating study showed that using tourniquets and blocks, even in combination, doesn’t have any significant effect on inpatient falls and can be used safely for knee replacement,” says study co-author and orthopedic surgeon Low Fall Incidence The study found a low occurrence rate of inpatient falls: 2.7 falls per 1,000 patient-days. Of the 6,472 patients included in the study, 39 sustained falls, most commonly on postoperative days one and two. The patients who fell had significantly longer lengths of stay (3 days versus 2.3 days) and higher revision rates at latest follow-up (10.3 percent versus 2 percent) than their counterparts who didn’t fall. Of the 39 patients who fell, 6 sustained minor injuries and 1 sustained an ankle fracture that did not require further surgery. The research, Dr. Rozell says, highlights the collaborative, multidisciplinary efforts of the arthroplasty program’s surgeons, nurses, anesthesiologists, physical and occupational therapists, and case managers. The important observation that neither tourniquets nor ACBs increased the low fall rates, he adds, suggests that both perioperative TKA interventions can be safely used, based on a surgeon’s comfort level. “If a surgeon feels comfortable performing the surgery with a tourniquet, I don’t think there’s any significant detriment to using one,” he says. “In general, I also think the adductor canal block is a useful adjunct to help with postoperative pain control and limiting the amount of opioids that patients require.” Setting Patient Expectations Teasing out the most significant risk factors may require larger-scale studies, Dr. Rozell cautions. As part of preoperative optimization, however, he emphasizes the importance of screening based on patients’ home environments, medical comorbidities, and other factors that could contribute to a longer length of stay, higher likelihood of revision, and overall fall risk. “Understanding the risk factors for falls preoperatively can help us prepare patients more appropriately for after the surgery,” he says. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues.” A critical part of that preparation, Dr. Rozell adds, is setting expectations about knee pain and function after the TKA surgery. “Sometimes patients feel that they have to progress at a faster rate than is anticipated, so they do too much too soon and potentially run into issues,” he says. “I think that preoperative education of the patient, tempering their expectations, and making sure they understand the type and amount of pain they’re going to be in after the surgery is very important.” Hip and Knee Reconstruction Joshua C. Rozell, MD, is an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery and director of patient-reported outcomes research. He specializes in anterior approach hip replacement, computer-navigated and robotic knee replacements, and outpatient joint replacement surgery. Second Trimester TAVR Paves the Way for a Safe Pregnancy & Delivery Remarkable recovery and uncomplicated birth are welcome outcomes following the diagnosis of critical aortic stenosis. Dual Targeting Approach Overcomes Sensitization in Heart Transplantation A heart failure expert details the novel protocol targeting plasma cells and B cell–T cell interactions with existing drugs. Existing Chest CTs Inform Risk of Heart Attack or Death Following Surgery Scoring coronary calcium from non-gated chest CTs shown to predict risk of postsurgical cardiac events. Transcatheter Management of a Rare Case of Congenital LV to CS Fistula For a newborn with a rare heart defect, advanced catheterization techniques and imaging offer a path to recovery. Presenters at the 2023 ACC Scientific Sessions NYU Langone Health cardiologists and cardiac surgeons joined international colleagues in New Orleans, March 4–6. Maternal Death Rates May Be Overestimated For the past two decades, public health assessments in the United States have raised concerns over sharply increasing rates of maternal mortality. However, doubts have lingered regarding the accuracy of these estimates, and a study recently published in the American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology challenges the prevailing estimates, and presents evidence that this is likely a methodological artifact. According to the National Vital Statistics System (NVSS) of the CDC, maternal mortality rates increased by 144 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 9.7 to 23.6 per 100,000 live births. For most of that period, the NVSS/CDC identified maternal mortality by relying on the pregnancy checkbox introduced in 2003 and that now appears on all US death certificates. “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths.” “What we found was more reassuring,” says at NYU Langone Health and a co-author of the study. “Rates of maternal mortality were essentially stable, though we clearly need to do better—especially in addressing the persistent racial and ethnic disparities.” Pitfalls of the Pregnancy Checkbox The pregnancy checkbox was designed to correct prior undercounting of maternal deaths, though experts have long recognized that it could drive distortions in the opposite direction. Reported maternal mortality rates rose sharply in the years after its introduction in 2003, but subsequent studies by the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) showed the increase to be an artifact. Errors of ascertainment and misclassification were common. For example, hundreds of women aged ≥70 years were certified as having been pregnant at the time of death or in the year before. These errors led the CDC to stop reporting the official US maternal mortality rates between 2004 and 2017. In 2018, the NCHS implemented new guidelines restricting use of the checkbox to deaths of pregnant people aged 15 to 44 years. Nonetheless, reported rates continued to soar , nearly doubling between 2018 and 2021. “My colleagues and I were skeptical of those numbers, in part because they didn’t align with data from the CDC’s pregnancy mortality surveillance system or state-based mortality review committees,” says Dr. Brandt. Redefining Cause of Death Suspecting the methodology was unreliable, a multinational research team analyzed the data using a broader approach. Dr. Brandt and colleagues examined a census of all maternal and pregnancy-related deaths from 1999 to 2021. Data were obtained from the NCHS multiple-causes-of-death files which contain information transcribed from death certificates. The files include a single underlying cause of death and up to 20 contributing causes. The team used two formulations to identify maternal deaths: The current NVSS and NCHS methodology, which includes deaths in pregnancy or in the postpartum period, including deaths identified solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox. An alternative, definition-based premise, requiring at least one mention of pregnancy among the immediate, intermediate, or underlying causes of mortality on the death certificate. The latter formulation was intended to identify only the deaths caused by pregnancy or its management, which epidemiologists refer to as maternal deaths. These are defined as deaths that occur while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy, from any cause related to or aggravated by pregnancy or its management, but not from accidental or incidental causes. The researchers hypothesized that overreliance on the pregnancy checkbox led to the misclassification of many deaths that occurred during or immediately after pregnancy, but that were caused by factors unrelated to pregnancy. While these cases may have been classified on death certificates as maternal deaths, epidemiologists define these as being pregnancy-associated deaths. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk.” Using the alternative, definition-based premise, the researchers recharacterized deaths identified by the NVSS solely because of a positive pregnancy checkbox as pregnancy-associated deaths, not maternal deaths. A Clearer Picture Emerges With this definition-based approach, the team found maternal mortality rates to have increased only 2 percent between 1999 and 2021, from 10.2 to 10.4 per 100,000 live births. The drop in maternal mortality rates based on the new formulation brings the US rates well within the range of other high-income countries “We saw a decline in direct obstetric deaths, defined as maternal deaths resulting from obstetric complications of the pregnant state, or from treatments related to that state,” says Dr. Brandt. “That makes sense because obstetric care has improved in the last 20 years. We are better capable of managing obstetrical hemorrhage, hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, thromboembolism, and other areas.” On a more granular level, however, the news was less comforting. Indirect obstetrical deaths—those resulting from previously existing disease or disease that developed during pregnancy and was aggravated by the physiologic effects of pregnancy—rose by 46 percent. Late maternal deaths, from either direct or indirect causes and occurring more than 42 days but less than one year after pregnancy, increased 329 percent. And though maternal mortality rates decreased among pregnant people who were non-Hispanic Black and Hispanic, they remained disproportionately higher for Black people than for other cohorts. Calling for a Course Correction “Our findings suggest that the pregnancy checkbox is squarely responsible for a substantial misclassification of deaths, and a consequent overestimation of maternal mortality,” says Dr. Brandt. “We need a course correction, so that we can direct our attention and our efforts more effectively.” Still, he adds, the study offers no grounds for complacency. “We should work to achieve better ascertainment of maternal deaths and then focus on the areas where there’s real risk. Those disparities in death rates are where we should be channeling more support and funding.” Chasing Down Complications of Untreated Infective Endocarditis Patient’s transthoracic echocardiogram revealing an abscess near the aortic root. The Root Cause of a Months-Long Illness A 19-year-old male with a congenitally diagnosed bicuspid aortic valve presented to the pediatric emergency department at with a 5-month history of fatigue, intermittent cough and fever, rashes, weight loss, and migrating joint pain. During the five weeks prior to arriving at NYU Langone and being referred to pediatric cardiologists Tasneem F. Hoque, MD , specialists with , he developed night sweats, and his fevers became daily and continuous. After an initial transthoracic echocardiogram revealed multiple vegetations and blood cultures were positive for Streptococcus mutans , they established a working diagnosis of infective endocarditis (IE). A follow-up MRA of the brain showed multiple small septic emboli. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE.” “Before coming to us, the patient had previously been seen by a pediatric cardiologist at another institution who did not consider the diagnosis of IE,” Dr. Better says. “In patients with a known history of valve malformations and these symptoms, clinicians must maintain a high clinical index of suspicion for IE to prevent morbidity and mortality.” Because of concern for potential deterioration and need for cardiothoracic surgical intervention, the patient was transferred to NYU Langone’s and put under the care of cardiothoracic surgeon , and cardiologist “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” Transesophageal echocardiography confirmed vegetations on both the aortic and mitral valves, while further imaging of the abdomen ordered secondary to abdominal pain revealed a splenic abscess. Given extensive involvement of the aortic valve that resulted in both stenosis and severe regurgitation, the decision was made to replace the aortic valve using the patient’s own pulmonary valve, also called the Ross procedure. “We first elected to perform laparoscopic splenectomy to reduce the burden of disease and risk of reinfection before proceeding with the Ross operation,” Dr. Kumar says. “The strong and seamless collaboration and communication between our pediatric and adult congenital heart programs saved this patient’s life.” “Within a few days of surgery, the patient was back to normal activities. Follow-up echocardiograms revealed a perfectly functioning aortic valve,” Dr. Kumar says. Transthoracic Echocardiogram Reveals Vegetations The patient’s echocardiogram showing mitral valve vegetations. A patient with a bicuspid aortic valve presented with persistent fever, rashes and joint pain. Specialists diagnosed the patient with infective endocarditis after an initial transthoracic echocardiogram showed two small masses on the anterior leaflet of the mitral valve, each about 5 by 12 millimeters in size, and blood cultures came back positive. More Insight from Transesophageal Echocardiography The patient’s echocardiogram showing aortic valve vegetations. Additional echocardiography revealed vegetations on the aortic valve. Treating the Multi-Organ Infection The patient’s echocardiogram demonstrating aortic root abscess. Further imaging revealed an aortic root abscess plus multiple septic brain emboli, a splenic abscess, and renal infarction. The aortic valve was successfully replaced using a pulmonary autograft (Ross) procedure, during which the mitral valve vegetations were removed. The infection to the spleen necessitated its removal and the remaining infections were treated with postoperative antibiotics. Donna J. Better, MD, is a clinical associate professor of pediatrics and site director of pediatric cardiology at NYU Langone Children’s Ambulatory Care Center—Mineola. Driving Forward Discoveries in Autoimmune Disease Jose U. Scher, MD , the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine and associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology , is director of NYU Langone Health’s Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity . Established to enhance understanding of autoimmune and immune-mediated disease, the Colton Center translates groundbreaking discoveries into new diagnostic tools and treatments. As the center’s new leader, Dr. Scher brings a wealth of experience in collaborating across research disciplines to uncover new targets for autoimmunity treatment. Here, he shares his vision for the center’s future, and why he believes the next big autoimmune discovery will come from a specialty outside of rheumatology. Shaping the Future of Autoimmune Discovery Dr. Scher, when you consider your priorities as director of the Colton Center, what are the key areas of opportunity you see ahead? Dr. Scher: First, I see an opportunity to build on the collaboration the center is known for and substantially expand interdisciplinary collaboration both within and beyond NYU Langone. I am convinced that we will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers, from epidemiologists, cell biologists, and biostatisticians to rheumatologists and immunologists, of course, but also dermatologists, gastroenterologists, and collaborators in other disciplines. “We will only identify new targets for better therapeutics in autoimmune and immune-mediated diseases by bringing together a full spectrum of researchers.” My second priority for the center is to pursue computational precision medicine–driven approaches in the study of autoimmune disease. While we’ve seen significant improvement in the therapies we can offer patients, we still lack the personalized approach to care that can be unlocked by using digital markers and artificial intelligence in our diagnostic tools and treatments. Collaborating Toward the Next Breakthrough Why is working across disciplines so important to the next phase of autoimmune research? The last significant breakthrough in the treatment of inflammatory autoimmune disease was the application of TNF inhibitors—which were originally developed for the treatment of sepsis—in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriatic arthritis. The idea that these medications could be efficacious in autoimmune disease was suggested by Dr. Jan T. Vilcek , a world-renowned microbiologist here at NYU Langone. While TNF inhibitors remain highly effective, nothing that has come after them has proven to be superior. Discovery has hit a plateau. “Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside.” I’m convinced that the next disruptive solution will emerge through the meeting of multiple minds and disciplines. Rheumatologists are often called “doctors’ doctors” because we must understand and incorporate multiple aspects of biology, medicine, and immunology to solve the enigma of autoimmune disease. I see the Colton Center as a catalytic facilitator to bring the pieces of discovery together and hopefully find that next disruptive breakthrough. Harnessing Technology to Personalize Care What are some of the specific technology-driven approaches you’re interested in applying to the study of autoimmune disease? There’s enormous opportunity to use technology to tie together the clinical, molecular, and digital features of a disease and its progression in order to direct more precise treatment. For example, in arthritis we are currently using functional tools such as step counts to predict progression; how could we incorporate those tools with radiographic assessments or sensor-derived data? In psoriasis, what diagnostic value does the pixelation of a skin image offer? Researchers have begun to apply machine learning algorithms to explore how medications can be tailored to each patient, but it remains siloed. There’s so much to be gained through collaboration. Expediting the Discovery Lifecycle Looking ahead, what do you see as the near-term opportunities for impact? We can help to accelerate discovery by providing an agile, collaborative environment where our researchers can expand and enhance what they’re already working on. The work of Dr. David B. Beck , an inaugural Colton Scholar, is a prime example; his research in discovering and characterizing VEXAS syndrome laid the groundwork for ongoing research at the center into new diagnostic tools and treatment pathways for the condition. We can also help to expedite the movement of novel treatment targets and compounds into later-stage development so they reach patients sooner. For example, a compound our researchers discovered for the treatment of myasthenia gravis is now in early-stage clinical trial. Our ultimate goal is to be a center that can nimbly move bench discovery into clinically meaningful outcomes at the bedside. Jose U. Scher, MD, is the Steere Abramson Associate Professor of Medicine, associate director of research and translational medicine in the Division of Rheumatology, and director of the Judith and Stewart Colton Center for Autoimmunity, the Psoriatic Arthritis Center, and the Microbiome Center for Rheumatology and Autoimmunity. Latest in Rheumatology 212-263-7349 Vestibular Testing At NYU Langone’s Hearing and Balance Center, audiologists provide children and adults with a full range of audiologic testing, as well as hearing aid evaluation, fitting, and follow-up care. We also offer adults and children to diagnose inner ear conditions affecting balance. Children with vestibular and balance disorders receive treatment through Our Team-Based Approach Our audiologists collaborate with otolaryngologists—ear, nose, and throat doctors—as well as providers at NYU Langone Otolaryngology Associates , neurologists, and pediatric specialists to provide compassionate, team-based care. We diagnose and create personalized treatment plans for the following conditions: otosclerosis, a condition affecting the stapes bone in your middle ear , which is ringing in your ears Eligible children and adults with hearing impairments may choose to be evaluated by providers at NYU Langone’s to determine suitability for a surgically placed cochlear implant or an auditory brainstem implant Care may also involve referrals for speech–language pathology services for , and any necessary educational support for your child. Hearing Tests Our experts perform a variety of hearing assessments , including audiometric hearing tests to evaluate the level of hearing loss in adults and older children. These tests occur in a soundproof booth, while you wear headphones that transmit various sounds to each ear. Your ability to detect these sounds help our doctors to determine which type of hearing loss is causing your symptoms. Specialized Care for Children We provide hearing assessments and treatment plans for children of all ages. If your infant does not pass universal newborn hearing screening, our audiologists provide additional screening and care. We may perform an otoacoustic emissions test to assess how well your baby’s inner ear works. Our audiologist may also use an auditory brainstem response (ABR) test. This test records how well sound travels from the inner ear to the brainstem and upper auditory area, to measure the lowest level of sound your baby can hear. We also provide child-friendly audiometric hearing tests. These assessments may include visual reinforcement, conditioned play, or interactive games, which help our audiologists evaluate even the most active kids. Auditory processing evaluations are recommended for children who have normal hearing but difficulty processing sound when there is background noise. This assessment can help diagnose an auditory processing disorder, which makes it harder for the brain to understand speech. We also work with members of the speech and hearing services team at Hassenfeld Children’s Hospital at NYU Langone to assess children who have speech delays and to rule out whether hearing loss may be the cause. In addition, we create treatment plans for children who have frequent middle ear infections associated with hearing loss. Hearing Aid Evaluation and Fitting If you or your child has , our experienced audiologists can help select the right hearing aid and demonstrate how it works. We specialize in custom fitting hearing aids and provide follow-up care to ensure that they are working properly. During fitting appointments, an audiologist inserts a probe microphone into the ear canal to precisely measure the sound and confirm that you receive the proper amplification level for your specific hearing loss. Our audiologists also provide information about assistive listening devices, which increase the sound of a telephone, television, or computer. If you experience severe hearing loss in one ear, our audiologists can help you choose the proper hearing amplifier. We provide a wide range of single-sided deafness devices. These include the contralateral routing of signals (CROS) system, which uses two hearing aids to transfer sound to your nonfunctional ear. We also offer a selection of bone-conduction hearing devices, which work by transferring sounds directly to your cochlea, a hollow tube in your inner ear. Our team includes experts in audiology, hearing loss, tinnitus, and vertigo. Erin Byrd AUD Audiologist Jaclyn B. Castoro Emily K. Lancaster Irina Ozersky Marisa Viets 516-663-4600 516-663-3793 Family Travel Medicine Center At the Family Travel Medicine Center at , we provide personalized care and medical recommendations for you and your family based on your specific travel destination. Our goal is to ensure that you receive appropriate immunizations and preventive medications, as well as information you need to help prevent illness and injuries during your trip abroad. Your visit to the Family Travel Medicine Center includes a comprehensive health assessment that takes into consideration your immunization history, current medications, and overall health. Together, we discuss potential risks, such as infectious diseases, safe food and beverages, contact with animals and insects, and high altitudes. We prepare you to handle symptoms that can arise when traveling abroad, and can advise you on who to contact in case of an emergency. We also address any specific health concerns you may have, such as asthma in children , or seasonal and food allergies. Upon your return, we can evaluate children who experienced fever, flu-like symptoms, skin infections, or other post-travel–related illness. We provide treatment for the following conditions: Japanese encephalitis measles mumps parasitic infections tick-borne illness , including chikungunya, dengue fever, malaria, typhoid fever, and yellow fever traveler’s diarrhea varicella, commonly known as chicken pox Zika virus Vaccinations We Provide We provide the following vaccinations: cholera hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and the combined hepatitis A and B vaccine, also known as TWINRIX measles, mumps, and rubella, also known as MMR meningococcal pneumococcal polio rabies tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis, also known as Tdap typhoid yellow fever As an authorized yellow fever vaccination center, we provide an International Certificate of Vaccination or Prophylaxis, also known as an ICVP card. Care for Children Our board-certified pediatric infectious disease specialists identify potential health risks and make age-specific recommendations using the most up-to-date guidance on emerging global infections. A child’s immune system is still maturing, which can make them more susceptible to certain diseases. Children also have different behaviors and health risks. Vaccine recommendations and preventive medications for children are usually different than for adults. To schedule an appointment, please call us at at least four weeks before travel to allow time to prepare and receive any needed immunizations. Our pediatric infectious disease specialists provide personalized care and prepare both adults and children to travel safely. Theresa M. Fiorito Asif Noor Pediatric Infectious Disease Doctor We are open Monday through Friday from 8:00AM to 4:00PM. Biomarkers of Neurodegeneration Elevated in Patients with Severe COVID-19 Study finds some biomarkers exceed levels found in patients with Alzheimer’s disease. Severe Hearing Loss: Exploring Unmet Needs Among Veterans New research probes factors influencing treatment for those with severe hearing loss. Physiatrists Set National Framework for COVID-19 Rehab and “Long COVID” Rusk Rehabilitation faculty help shape national standards for inpatient care and treating post-acute sequelae. Early Neurorehabilitation Shows Promise in Disorders of Consciousness after COVID-19 More than half of severely impaired patients demonstrate improvements in responsiveness before discharge. Rusk Rehabilitation: 75 Years Strong Join us in NYC for a conference and celebration presented by NYU Langone Health. Vocal Fold Mucosa-Muscle Interactions Revealed for First Time Cell-level interactions suggests a promising new avenue for research on laryngeal dysfunction and voice disorders. A New Tool For Measuring Stroke Rehabilitation patients with stroke who experience significant motor impairment in an upper extremity, rehabilitation seeks to accelerate motor recovery by training functional activities. However, the optimal quantity of functional motions to augment motor recovery has remained unknown without practical tools to measure them during rehabilitation. “The rate limiting step for stroke rehabilitation is counting movements, especially for the arms, which unlike the legs, do not have regular, repetitive kinematics,” says , an associate professor of neurology and rehabilitation medicine. Dr. Schambra and , at New York University, and their research teams are the developers of PrimSeq, a new deep learning-based digital tool to identify and quantify functional movements during stroke rehabilitation. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them,” says Dr. Schambra. “The tool has been built to recognize functional movements, like a reach or a transport, by their motion patterns. Once recognized, the tool can count them.” Design and Development The PrimSeq pipeline was designed to accurately measure motor therapy through the rapid counting of building-block functional movements, called primitives. “Our research so far shows that rehabilitation activities can be accurately decomposed into these elemental movements,” notes Dr. Schambra. “Much like words in a paragraph, primitives are strung together to execute an activity.” The approach integrates three components: wearable sensors to capture upper-body motion, a deep learning model to classify primitives from their motion patterns, and an algorithm to quantify the primitives. To build the approach, the research team collected extensive motion data from stroke patients performing rehabilitation activities, using human experts to divide up the motion into types of primitives. The primitives and their associated patterns of motion data were fed to a deep learning model. Once trained, the approach accurately identifies and tallies these functional movements at a fraction of the time and labor costs of human experts, says Dr. Schambra. A Promising Option for Stroke Patients In a recent publication, the research teams showed that the PrimSeq algorithm precisely counts functional primitives completed by stroke patients and outperformed other benchmark algorithms. Further results demonstrated that patients tolerated the wearable sensors, and also showed that the approach is 366 times faster at counting primitives than humans. Based on these findings, the study concludes that PrimSeq provides a precise and practical way of quantifying arm movements in stroke rehabilitation, offering a promising platform to further advance both research and clinical care. “Our goal is to continue training the algorithm in inpatient rehabilitation settings, then expand to outpatient settings,” says Dr. Schambra. “In research contexts, the generalizability depends in part on the adoption of functional primitives as units of measure.” While the trained model outperforms other best-in-class models, further refinement is needed, and the researchers plan to continue optimization. “The model performs well, with a sensitivity of 77 percent, but we want to continue to improve its accuracy,” says Dr. Schambra. “Long-term, we’d like to package and release this tool as a software, as well as explore its potential in other rehabilitation domains.” In the meantime, the teams have made the data and source code for their algorithm available online to foster collaboration among researchers. Mitigating the Developmental Impact of Poverty at Pediatric Checkups Accessible tools and interventions aid caregivers in supporting children’s healthy development. Uncovering the Biological Basis of Intergenerational Trauma Brain changes in utero confirm trauma-associated developmental risk factors passed from mother to baby. Raman Spectroscopy Aids Detection of Lung Cancers New tech helps to assess multiple characteristics of small bronchoscopic biopsies. A Successful Triple Transplant for Heart, Lungs, and Kidney Thirteen-hour OR procedure entails a close partnership of transplant surgeons and specialists. Research Spotlight Longer View Supports ECMO for Patients with Severe COVID-19 At one year, patients experienced noteworthy short- and long-term outcomes. Evidence for Music’s Power in Dementia Care Arts-based interventions benefit those with cognitive decline and their caregivers, suggests mounting research. Improving Precision Diagnosis of Lung Nodules 3D robotic bronchoscopy reduces the need for more invasive procedures. Mapping the Future of Rehabilitation Medicine Physical medicine and rehabilitation was first recognized as a specialty by the American Board of Medical Specialties in 1947, established through the pioneering work of internal medicine physician Howard A. Rusk, MD . Dr. Rusk also founded NYU Langone Health’s , built with the vision of providing patients with high-quality care and the recovery resources needed to lead full and rewarding lives. Today, , continues to advance Dr. Rusk’s vision as chair of rehabilitation medicine and the Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine. Dr. Flanagan also serves as the incoming president of the American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (AAPM&R) . Here, he discusses the further evolution of the specialty. The Essential Role of Physiatry Dr. Flanagan, what sparked your initial interest in rehabilitation medicine? Dr. Flanagan: Growing up, I was interested in the nervous system and psychology, specifically the biology of human behavior. As a medical student, I was deliberating between neurology and psychiatry, but instead chose physiatry, after first encountering it in my third year. In rehabilitation medicine, you’re able to develop longer-term relationships with patients, which is vastly different than many other specialties. In physiatry, we don’t focus on one organ system or age group. We focus on disability, which can arise from injury to any organ system. Our role is essential to promote overall health and function for patients—our goal is for them to live as independently as possible. National Leadership: Increasing Visibility and Specialization You’re the incoming president of the AAPM&R. Can you describe your vision for the role? The benefit of being in this type of leadership position is that you’re afforded the opportunity to advocate for the speciality at a national level. In my view, physiatry is the best-kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore. During my term, I hope to increase awareness of the value physiatrists bring to the table. “Physiatry is the best kept secret in medicine, and we don’t want it to be a secret anymore.” For example, if our goal is to achieve better patient outcomes and experiences, and to become more efficient, which translates to “more cost-effective” for institutions, we need both patients and other specialties to realize the value of physical medicine and rehabilitation. What are the most exciting opportunities ahead for the growth of the specialty? Physiatry is a relatively new specialty. Over the course of time, it has become more diversified, encompassing the entire spectrum of disability. One recent development, for example, is the conception of oncological rehabilitation, defined as the treatment of disabilities related to cancer or cancer treatment. Other subspecialties that have emerged since the specialty was first recognized are musculoskeletal and pain rehabilitation. In the coming years, I expect physiatry will continue to grow, and I’m glad to be part of it. Rusk Rehabilitation’s Legacy of Innovation NYU Langone’s Rusk Rehabilitation is one of the most renowned rehabilitation locations in the country, with a storied history. What makes it unique? Rusk Rehabilitation was the first fully