Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 1 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 APPLICATION NYU Langone Health PURPOSE To protect personnel and property from the hazards posed by hot work. To comply with all federal (e.g., Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 1910 Subpart Q and 1926 Subpart J), state, and local regulations, and National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) standards related to hot work. POLICY 1.0 Application NYU Langone Health (NYULH) refers to the NYU Langone Health System, NYU Langone Hospitals, NYU Grossman School of Medicine, NYU Long Island School of Medicine, the Family Health Centers at NYU Langone, and all entities controlled by any of them. This policy applies to: − All indoor and outdoor areas of all NYULH owned and leased facilities − All employees, contractors, vendors and consultants of NYULH 2.0 Definitions Certifications, licenses and evidence of training the documents required by NYULH, and the authorities have jurisdiction (AHJs), in order to perform hot work or act as a fire watch. These requirements include: Hot worker NYC FDNY G 60 certificate of fitness. For structural welding, NYC DoB license Nassau County Nassau County Welding/Cutting certificate of fitness Suffolk County FDNY G 60 or Nassau County Welding/Cutting certificate of fitness, as well as any Town requirements Fire watch NYC FDNY F 60 certificate of fitness Nassau and Suffolk County FDNY F 60 certificate of fitness or NFPA Hot Work Safety Certificate, as well as any County or Town requirements Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 2 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Competent person means a person who is capable of identifying existing and predictable hazards in the surroundings, or working conditions which are unsanitary, hazardous or dangerous to workers, and who has authorization to take prompt corrective measures to eliminate them. Controlling contractor (Contractor) means a prime contractor, general contractor, construction manager or any other legal entity, which has the overall responsibility for the construction of the project (e.g., its planning, quality, and completion). Hot work means work which produces flame, sparks, slag (such as cutting, welding, burning, grinding, brazing, soldering, or similar operations) or heat capable of initiating a fire or explosion. Hot work permit (permit) means a permit generated by NYULH’s online hot work permitting system or, where authorized by this policy (see exception in Responsibilities section 5.5), a comparable permit whose use has been approved by Environmental Health and Safety (EH&S). 3.0 Alternatives to hot work and risk reduction 3.1 Due to the hazards hot work poses, work shall be designed and planned to eliminate risk where feasible. Alternatives include: performing hot work offsite mechanical fastening or bolting screw, flanged or clamped pipe mechanical shears or pipe cutter cold apply roofing water jet 3.2 Where hot work cannot be completely eliminated, less hazardous methods shall be employed (for example, use of a reciprocating saw versus a torch) or the hot work shall be performed outdoors at grade or in a dedicated, controlled indoor area, where feasible. 4.0 Planning of high risk hot work 4.1 Hot work involving any of the following shall be planned with the campus Safety Officer, and EH&S: Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 3 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 on or over a roof performed at height involving a tank or pressure vessel on an active medical gas system in a shaft or confined space involves the use of propane (> 16.4 ounces), natural gas or liquid oxygen on coated or painted metal surfaces (e.g. lead, zinc, etc.) involving aluminum or stainless steel When planning high risk hot work, also see Section 6.0. 5.0 Responsibilities 5.1 EH&S is responsible for:  Assisting Facilities, Real Estate and RED+F Design and Construction in identifying alternatives to hot work and planning of high risk hot work.  Developing the Hot Work Program (the Program) and collaborating with others to implement and maintain it.  Training relevant groups, including Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, on the requirements of the Program.  Providing employees with training on the use of fire extinguishers.  Functioning as a consultant on an as needed basis for hot work safety issues.  Managing a quality assurance (QA) program, involving inspections of representative sites where hot work has been permitted.  Evaluating the effectiveness of the Program and recommending changes as needed. 5.2 Vice Presidents (VPs) and Directors of Facilities, Real Estate, and RED+F Design and Construction, as applicable, are responsible for compliance within their divisions. Their responsibilities include, but are not limited to:  Promoting alternatives to hot work and incorporating standardized means and methods into the NYULH Design Guidelines document.  Implementing the Program within their divisions.  Ensuring all requirements of the policy are followed. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 4 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Ensuring personnel who are covered by the Program are trained on its requirements.  Ensuring all hot work is identified and included in the Program.  Ensuring contractors comply with this policy. VPs and Directors of Facilities and Real Estate are also responsible for managing the Program, the online permitting system, and the permitting process; and providing access to, and training on, the online system. VPs and Directors of Real Estate are also responsible for having their staff serve as a liaison for hot work as needed with landlords and building management at occupied leased sites. 5.3 Managers, Project Managers (PMs) (e.g., design, construction, renovation, operations, and maintenance) and Tenant Coordinators (TCs), are responsible for implementing the program on their projects. Their responsibilities include:  Incorporating alternatives to hot work during the design and planning process.  Planning high risk hot work (Sections 4.0 and 6.0) with the campus Safety Officer, and EH&S.  Ensuring employees and contractors comply with this policy Incorporating the requirements of the policy into the contract or specifications for the work. Discussing training requirements, required safety equipment, and work area preparation with employees and contractors.  Informing management of adjacent occupied areas of hot work to be done.  Requesting necessary shutdowns (e.g., ventilation, smoke/heat detection, medical gas and vacuum systems) from Facilities or building management in advance of hot work.  Arranging for fire watch where a fire detection system is impaired. PMs are also responsible for:  Approving hot work permits at unoccupied, leased sites.  Inspecting hot work during their site visits to verify that it is being conducted in accordance with permit requirements. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 5 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Facilities and Real Estate managers are also responsible for:  Ensuring staff and contractor personnel have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in section 2.0.  Obtaining a hot work permit from the NYULH online system daily prior to undertaking any hot work, uploading staff and contractor certifications, licenses and evidence of training, and uploading the completed Hot Work Inspection Checklist.  Oversight of retained contractor personnel 5.4 Facilities forepersons are responsible for hot work performed by “in house” staff or by contractors they are assigned to oversee. Their responsibilities include:  Complying with the provisions of this policy.  Verifying shutdowns requested by the Manager (e.g., ventilation, smoke detection, medical gas, and vacuum systems) prior to commencing work and notifying Facilities where an extension is needed or when work is complete.  Keeping the sprinkler system active during hot work, protecting the sprinkler head(s) near hot work against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier), and removing this protection once the hot work is complete and at the end of each work day. Where Facilities determines that adequately protecting a sprinkler head in close proximity to hot work is not feasible, the head shall be removed and the sprinkler line plugged and refilled prior to performing any hot work. The sprinkler head shall be replaced as soon as the hot work is complete.  Capping openings in supply and return ductwork with sheet metal and ensuring a smoke tight seal.  Sealing all floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings with smoke tight, fire resistant materials.  Ensuring flammables and movable combustibles within 35 feet of hot work, and in open areas below, are removed and that immovable combustibles and openings are fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets.  Ensuring the floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean prior to the start of work.  Providing a charged water hose and ensuring it is immediately available for use where specified. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 6 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Ensuring mechanics who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have completed hot work training, and NYULH’s Focus module: Emergency Management and Workplace Safety. Verifying mechanics and contractor personnel under their oversight who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in Section 2.0.  Utilizing the NYULH Hot Work Inspection Checklist (Appendix A) to inspect the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, each day prior to start of work to ensure proper protective measures are in place and signing the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). The completed checklist shall be provided to their manager for upload to NYULH online permitting system.  Assigning additional fire watch where needed in other areas at risk of fire  Ensuring fire watch: Has a charged cellphone or radio Knows the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and the NYULH procedure for reporting a fire:  Activate pull station;  Call 911;  Call NYULH Operator Manhattan 212.263.3911, Brooklyn 718.630.6450, Long Island 516.663.3911 Knows how to use a fire extinguisher (P A S S) Has at a minimum a charged and inspected 10 lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher immediately available Is present with no other assigned duties during hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work  Ensuring mechanics return compressed gas cylinders to their authorized storage area when not in use and at the end of each work day. 5.5 Controlling contractors are responsible for:  Complying with the provisions of this policy. Providing contractor personnel with an initial site orientation and site specific training.  Ensuring contractor personnel who perform hot work or act as a fire watch have the specific certifications, licenses and evidence of training defined in Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 7 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Section 2.0, as well as any applicable permits (e.g., for storage/use of compressed gas cylinders).  Obtaining a hot work permit from the NYULH online system daily, uploading contractor evidence of training, certifications or licenses, and uploading the completed Hot Work Inspection Checklist. Exception: In unoccupied buildings and new buildings under construction, controlling contractors may use their hot work permit program where permitted by building management, and approved in advance by EH&S.  Complying with all building management hot work requirements at leased sites in addition to this policy.  Verifying shutdowns requested by the PM (e.g., ventilation, smoke detection, medical gas and vacuum systems) prior to commencing work and notifying Facilities or building management where an extension is needed or when work is complete.  Keeping the sprinkler system active during hot work, protecting the sprinkler head(s) near hot work against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier), and removing this protection once the hot work is complete and at the end of each work day. Where Facilities or building management determine that adequately protecting a sprinkler head in close proximity to hot work is not feasible, the head shall be removed and the sprinkler line plugged and refilled prior to performing any hot work. The sprinkler head shall be replaced as soon as the hot work is complete.  Capping openings in supply and return ductwork with sheet metal and ensuring a smoke tight seal.  Sealing all floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings with smoke tight, fire resistant materials.  Ensuring flammables and movable combustibles within 35 feet of hot work and in open areas below are removed and that immovable combustibles and openings are fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets.  Ensuring the floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean prior to the start of work.  Providing a charged water hose and ensuring it is immediately available for use where specified  Assigning a competent person to inspect the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, utilizing the NYULH Hot Work Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 8 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Inspection Checklist contained in Appendix A, each day prior to start of work to ensure proper protective measures are in place and signing the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). The completed checklist shall be uploaded to NYULH online permitting system.  Assigning additional fire watch where needed in other areas at risk of fire  Ensuring fire watch: Has a charged cellphone or radio Knows the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and the NYULH procedure for reporting a fire:  Activate pull station;  Call 911;  Call NYULH Operator Manhattan 212.263.3911, Brooklyn 718.630.6450, Long Island 516.663.3911 Knows how to use a fire extinguisher (P A S S) Has at a minimum a charged and inspected 10 lb. ABC fire extinguisher immediately available Is present with no other assigned duties during hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work  Ensuring their contractors remove compressed gas cylinders from the building when not in use and at the end of each work day.  Obtaining approval from Facilities or building management, EH&S and the AHJ for any compressed gas cylinder storage. 5.6 Hot workers and fire watch are responsible for:  Only undertaking hot work or acting as a fire watch if they have, on their person, documentation of training as well as any AHJ required certifications or licenses.  Verifying that a hot work permit has been issued prior to conducting any work.  Following the requirements of the permit.  Ensuring the hot work permit is readily available (e.g., through an electronic copy or posted copy) in the work area.  Posting “Caution: Hot Work in Progress Stay Clear” signage at the approach to the hot work area. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 9 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Properly transporting compressed gas cylinders out of the building (contractors) or to their approved storage location (staff) when not in use and at the end of each work day.  Notifying their foreperson or the controlling contractor when post hot work inspections are complete.  Immediately notifying their foreperson or controlling contractor of any injuries, incidents, or other problems encountered during hot work. − Injured employees shall be taken to Occupational Health Services or the nearest Emergency Department for treatment and an incident report completed. − Injured contractor personnel shall be taken to the nearest Emergency Department for treatment with a controlling contractor incident report completed. 5.7 The hot worker is also responsible for:  Inspecting the date stamp on compressed gas cylinders to confirm certification within required time period (e.g. oxygen 5 years, acetylene 10 years)  Installing a UL listed flashback arrestor with check valve at both the torch and regulator for all single and dual gas torch operations  Properly assembling and inspecting hot work equipment for loose connections, damage and leaks (using soapy water) prior to use.  Securing all compressed gas cylinders upright in a cart or carrier/stand and keeping them back a safe distance from hot work  Ensuring that a fume extractor (“smoke eater”) or appropriate exhaust ventilation is in use at the point of the hot work  Turning off the electric welder and compressed gas cylinders when unattended, not in use and at the end of each work day  Wearing appropriate protective clothing and equipment 5.8 The fire watch is also responsible for:  Performing no other responsibilities when functioning as a fire watch. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 10 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023  Being present, with no other assigned duties, at all times in the work area during hot work operations and shift breaks, and continuously for 30 minutes after the hot work has concluded.  Where the hot work involves a compressed natural gas (CNG) or liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) torch operation, conducting an additional inspection of the hot work area 60 minutes post completion.  Maintaining a written log of fire watch activities.  Obtaining training on how to use a fire extinguisher.  Having at minimum a charged, 10lb. ABC dry chemical fire extinguisher immediately available in areas of hot work and, where specified, a fire hose.  Having a communication device to keep in contact with their foreperson.  Knowing the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station, if any.  Immediately reporting all fire incidents, regardless of severity, as follows: − At the NYU Langone Manhattan and Langone Orthopedic Hospital (LOH) campuses, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (212.263.3911) and their foreperson − At the NYU Langone Brooklyn campus, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (718.630.6450) and their foreperson − At the NYU Langone Long Island campus, activate the nearest pull station, call 911, NYULH Communications (516.663.3911) and their foreperson. − At all other locations, activate the nearest pull station, call 911 and their foreperson. − On sites which lack an active fire alarm system, call 911, then contact their foreperson. 6.0 Controls for other hazards 6.1 At least one week in advance of planned hot work in a confined space or shaft, the PM or Manager shall contact EH&S for assistance with planning. For emergency work, they shall contact EH&S immediately. See the NYULH Confined Space Entry Program policy and NYULH Construction Safety Requirements policy (Section 11.32). Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 11 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 6.2 Hot work which involves the use of propane (>16.4 ounces), compressed natural gas or liquid oxygen shall be approved by, and planned with EH&S. 6.3 Prior to performing hot work on metals that produce toxic fumes (e.g., galvanized steel, stainless steel, aluminum), a job hazard analysis (JHA) is required to ensure compliance with OSHA 1926.353(c) and OSHA Subparts D and E. 6.4 Prior to performing hot work on a painted metal surface, the PM or Manager shall arrange for the paint to be tested for lead. Hot work shall not to be performed on lead containing surfaces. 6.5 The use of torch down or other hot work methods on roofs is prohibited unless specifically reviewed and approved by NYULH RED+F leadership and EH&S. Personnel shall not perform hot work on a roof constructed of combustible materials (e.g., wood, insulation board) or where exposed combustible materials are present. See NYULH Construction Safety Requirements policy (Sections 11.30 and 11.31). 6.6 Personnel shall only perform hot work on medical gas lines and in bulk oxygen storage areas after the required shutdowns and purging of piping and vessels are complete. This work shall be planned with Facilities, building management and EH&S. 6.7 Prior to performing any hot work on a tank or vessel that was pressurized or formerly contained a combustible, flammable or toxic solid, liquid or gas, a JHA shall be completed and certification of proper depressurization, purging and cleaning of the tank or vessel obtained. 6.8 Smoke or odor producing hot work shall only be performed where an operable smoke eater or proper exhaust ventilation is present at the point of the work. The exhaust ventilation discharge shall be reviewed with EH&S. 6.9 Personnel performing hot work at height shall do so from a stable work platform with guardrail protection (e.g., scaffold or aerial lift), not a ladder (see Safety Policy 163). 6.10 Personnel performing electric arc welding from a suspended scaffold shall comply with the requirement set forth in OSHA 1926.451(f)(17)(i) through (vi) (see Safety Policy 163). Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 12 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 7.0 Training 7.1 Managers, PMs, TCs, and contractors shall ensure that workers who perform hot work are trained on:  Requirements of this policy  Proper preparation of a work area  Use of safety equipment  Responsibilities of the fire watch  Emergency procedures (e.g. fire and employee injury protocols) 7.2 Training shall be conducted:  Before a worker is first assigned hot work tasks  Before a worker is assigned new hot work tasks  Whenever there is a change in procedures or new hazards are introduced  Whenever there are deviations from the requirements of the policy, or there are inadequacies noted in a worker's knowledge or use of these procedures 7.3 Upon request, EH&S shall provide training to NYULH employees. 7.4 Each division shall maintain training records for its employees.  Records shall include the dates of training, subjects covered, names of employees trained, and name and signature of the trainer.  Records shall be maintained for 1 year past the last day of employment.  Copies of records shall be provided to EH&S upon request. 8.0 Program evaluation 8.1 EH&S shall conduct QA inspections for a representative sample of permits, and make recommendations for changes as necessary.  See Appendix A for Hot Work Inspection checklist. 8.2 EH&S shall conduct an annual evaluation of the hot work program as part of the annual evaluation of the NYU Langone Hospitals Fire Safety Management Plan. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 13 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Related Safety Policies 120: Construction Safety Requirements 138: Confined Space Entry Program 145: Interim Life Safety Program 163: Ladders, Scaffolds and Mobile Elevating Work Platforms Appendix A NYU Langone Health Hot Work Inspection Checklist Issue date 03/2023 Replaces 02/2021 Reviewed by J. Burke, NYULH LI, Facility & Plant Management M. Ciferri, NYULH B, Facilities R. Cohen, Facilities Operations C. Coltun, RED+F Construction B. Farrell, Real Estate S. Haney, Environmental Health and Safety M. Figueroa, Environmental Health and Safety B. Kenny, NYULH LI, Engineering D. Resnick, RED+F Construction D. Rubbo, NYULOH Facilities Engineering NYULH Construction Safety Committee NYU Langone Hospitals Environment of Care (EOC) Committee NYU Langone Hospital Brooklyn EOC Committee NYU Langone Orthopedic Hospital EOC Committee NYU Langone Hospital Long Island EOC Committee Family Health Centers at NYU Langone EOC Committee Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 14 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Summary of Revisions Revision date Section Changes March 2023 2.0 Adds certifications, licenses and evidence of training definition. Revises hot work definition 3.0 Adds alternatives to Hot Work and Risk Reduction section 4.0 Adds Planning of High Risk Hot Work section 5.0 Revises Responsibilities for EH&S, Vice Presidents and Directors, Managers, PMs and TCs, Facilities Forepersons, Controlling Contractors, Hot Workers and Fire Watch Appendices Revises Hot Work Inspection Checklist Removes Appendix A Hot Work Permit Requirements, Section 2: Work Area Preparation Re alphabetizes “Appendix B” to “Appendix A” February 2021 Throughout Updates NYU Winthrop to NYU Langone Hospital Long Island 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 Minor edits February 2020 2.0 Adds brazing and soldering to the definition of hot work 3.2 Clarifies that Real Estate is only responsible for occupied leased sites 3.3 Adds that PMs are responsible for authorizing permits at unoccupied leased sites 3.6, 3.7, 4.3, Appendix B Minor edits September 2019 Throughout Changes fire guard to fire watch/guard Throughout Changes referenced NYC agencies to Authorities Having Jurisdiction Throughout Changes NYU Langone to NYULH as needed 1.0 Incorporates Winthrop and NYU Long Island School of Medicine 4.1 Changes 2 weeks to 1 week 6.5 Prohibits hot work on roofs Reviewed by Adds NYU Winthrop Hospital review February 2018 2.0 Revises hot work permit definition 3.5 Revises hot work permit and adds comply with building management language 3.7 Revises fire guard presence/inspection language to align with NYC Fire Code requirements 4.1 Adds “planned” to hot work in, or in close proximity to, a confined space Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 15 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Revision date Section Changes 4.2 Modifies exception language. Eliminates reference to leased properties 6.6 Adds precaution for hot work performed on tank/vessel that was pressurized or housed a combustible, flammable or toxic solid, liquid or gas 6.7 Adds need for a smoke eater or proper exhaust ventilation when performing welding, grinding or other odor or smoke producing hot work August 2017 Throughout Updates organizational references Appendix B Updates checklist July 2017 3.4 Clarifies foreperson responsibilities 3.6 Allows use of an electronic permit, in lieu of a paper copy 3.6. 4.3 Eliminates the requirement for the hot worker and fire guard to sign the permit 4.2 Changes “each day” to “within 24 hours” Allows use of controlling contractors hot work program for work in leased space. 4.3 Allows electronic permits and signatures. Appendix B Adds new checklist item for signage “Caution: Hot Work in Progress” February 2017 Application Changes NYULMC to NYU Langone Removes reference to a separate Lutheran hot work program 1.0 Defines NYU Langone 2.0 Changes definition of hot work permit to reference NYU Langone’s new online permitting system 3.0, 4.0 Reflects new online permitting system 3.1 Adds a QA program to EH&S responsibilities. 3.7 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B. 5.0 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B 6.0 New. Incorporates information previously in Appendix B. 8.1 Adds a formal QA program. Appendix A Eliminates old paper permit. Changes content to focus on Section 2 of the new online permitting system. Incorporates relevant content from Appendix B. Appendix B Eliminates previous information. Adds new inspection checklist. September 2016 4.1 Clarifies daily submission of hot work permits. Safety Policy Manual Policy 143 Policy: Hot Work Program Page 16 of 16 Revised: March 7, 2023 Revision date Section Changes May 2016 Policy & General Information References Lutheran’s hot work program. Purpose Changes “NYC Fire Code” to “all NYC regulations” 2.0 Adds definitions for “competent person” and “controlling contractor” Approves use of non NYULMC hot work permit as authorized by EH&S 3.2 Clarifies responsibilities at offsite facilities 3.3 Adds Tenant Coordinator responsibilities at offsite locations Adds DoB license and FDNY CoF requirement for mechanics performing hot work and acting as fire guard 3.4 Adds Facilities’ foreperson responsibilities 3.5 Clarifies Controlling contractors’ responsibilities 4.0 Clarifies hot work permitting procedures Summary of Revisions Adds of Summary of Revisions Appendix A Updates Hot Work Permit Appendix B Clarifies instructions for filling out hot work permits Safety Policy 143, Appendix A Revised: March 6, 2023 NYU Langone Health Hot Work Inspection Checklist Project Name: PIM#: Inspected By: Bldg/Floor/ Location: Facilities shop/Contractor: Inspection Date: Project/Facilities Manager: Inspection Time: Requirement Met Not Met N/A Comments Hot work involving any of the following has been planned with NYULH EH&S, with special precautions implemented: on or over a roof at height on a tank on medical gas system in shaft or confined space performed by contractor in an occupied area use of propane/natural gas/liquid oxygen coated/painted metal, stainless steel, aluminum Facilities foreperson/controlling contractor’s competent person has inspected the hot work equipment and area, including any open adjacent or lower areas, utilizing this checklist, and signed the hot work permit (electronic signature is acceptable). Completed checklists are kept with associated hot work permit Smoke/heat detector shutdown requested and verified Sprinklers in hot work area are active. Sprinkler head(s) in close proximity to hot work are protected against activation (e.g. damp cloth, non combustible barrier). Protection is removed when hot work is complete and at the end of each workday Supply and return registers in work area are capped with sheet metal and sealed smoke tight The floor in the hot work area, and any open adjacent or lower areas, is swept clean All floor, wall, ceiling, shaft and MEP openings are sealed using smoke tight, fire resistant materials Flammables and movable combustibles within a 35 foot radius of hot work, as well as in open areas below, have been removed Immovable combustibles and openings have been fully protected with fire rated tarps or welding blankets Where specified, a water hose is charged and immediately available for use An approved NYULH hot work permit, valid for the date, time and location, is available for inspection in the work area The hot worker is named on the permit and can produce a valid FDNY G 60 torch CoF or DoB license for structural welding (NYC) or welding/cutting CoF (Nassau County) Hot work equipment properly assembled and inspected for loose connections, damage and leaks (using soapy water) prior to use Safety Policy 143, Appendix A Revised: March 6, 2023 Requirement Met Not Met N/A Comments Date stamp on compressed gas cylinder confirms certification within required time period (e.g. oxygen 5 yrs, acetylene 10 yrs) For both single and dual gas torch operations, a UL listed flashback arrestor with integrated check valve is in place at both the torch and regulator All fire watch/guard personnel are named on the permit and can produce a valid FDNY F 60 CoF (NYC) or evidence of training (Long Island) Fire watch/guard is present, with no other duties, during all hot work and continuously for 30 minutes post hot work. In NYC, Fire guard maintains a record of fire watch on premise for 48 hours Where required, there are additional fire watch/guards in other areas at risk for fire, with no other duties All fire watch/guards have a minimum 10 lb. ABC fire extinguisher, inspected and fully charged, immediately available All fire watch/guards know P A S S All fire watch/guards have charged radios or cell phones All fire watch/guards know the location of the nearest fire alarm pull station and NYULH procedure for reporting a fire Hot worker is wearing appropriate protective clothing and equipment “Caution: Hot Work in Progress Stay Clear” signage is posted at the approach to the hot work area (New York City) All compressed gas cylinders are secured upright in a cart or carrier/stand a safe distance back from hot work Flammable gas and oxygen cylinders are turned off when unattended, capped prior to transport and removed from the building when not in use and at the end of each work day Electric welder powered down when not in use and at the end of each work day There is a smoke eater or appropriate exhaust ventilation in use at the point of work Other Findings