to medical educators. “Too many women are falling through the cracks, despite the existence of evidence-based treatments,” says Dr. Myrick. “We need to improve access to education, especially for obstetrics and gynecology trainees.” “The team plans to validate and further refine the model in the coming months, with the potential for telemedicine to be used in the future for diagnosis and treatment.” Obstetrics, Gynecology Olivia P. Myrick, MD, is director of education for the Perinatal Mental Health Program and associate director of the Obstetrics and Gynecology Residency. She specializes in providing compassionate, evidence-based care and support for women throughout pregnancy and childbirth and after delivery. Jessica M. Vernon, MD, is director of the Perinatal Mental Health Program and a clinical assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology. Her research focuses on the development of programs that provide a holistic approach to patient care, including mental and emotional support during the pregnancy and postpartum period. NYU Langone Orthopedics at the 2023 AAOS Annual Meeting Our physicians and world leaders gathered in Las Vegas March 7–11, 2023, for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS). Two Dexamethasone Doses Are Safe & Effective After Primary TKA Analgesic benefits of second dexamethasone dose in patients with diabetes outweigh transient blood sugar rise. Expanding the Practice of In-Office Needle Arthroscopy NYU Langone Health debuts a first-of-its-kind fellowship in a minimally invasive procedure. A First in Arthroscopy: Wireless Camera Surgery Wireless arthroscopy camera system, first of its kind, could decrease costs and patient risks in orthopedics. New Percutaneous Ablation Method Relieves Pelvic Tumor Pain and Instability￼ Minimally invasive CT, ablation, and cement fixation technique improves pain and mobility in a patient with multiple myeloma. Multidisciplinary Conferences Improve Outcomes in Complex Spine Surgery Preoperative conferences for high-risk patients significantly reduce complications, readmissions, and reoperation rates. Overcoming Injustice in Addiction Medicine , the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry in the and an associate professor in the , has devoted her career to helping racial and ethnic minoritized people achieve wellness and recovery from substance use disorders. Recently, she was selected as the first recipient of the Award for the Promotion of Inclusion, Diversity, Equality, and Justice in Addiction Medicine from the American Society of Addiction Medicine (ASAM) Dr. Jordan is the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s . Additionally, she is director of the equity, diversity, and inclusion initiative for the National Institute of Drug Abuse’s Justice Community Opioid Innovation Network recently spoke with Dr. Jordan about the ASAM honor and the critical nature of this work. Integrating Cultural and Structural Competency into Care Dr. Jordan, congratulations on the ASAM award to be presented at next year’s conference. How did your clinical and research interests evolve to focus on diversity, equity, and inclusion in addiction medicine? Dr. Jordan: I describe my work as seeing how external factors beyond the physician–patient relationship impact health outcomes. When I was in medical school and treating patients in the Bronx, a lot of the work we did focused on cultural competency—how patients’ cultural views and understanding of their illness impacts decision-making and behavior related to their illness. This is necessary, but not sufficient. Additionally, factors like immigration status, or poverty, or coming from a minoritized background, or not having access to education had a strong impact on health. At Yale New Haven Hospital, I helped to establish a co-occurring disorders clinic that focused on integrating structural competency into caring for patients with both mental illness and addiction. We called this clinic the Medication for Addiction Treatment Consultation Center, where we not only dealt with someone’s substance use disorder but also tried to understand how factors in the environment like homelessness, legal problems, and racism affect their health. We formed partnerships with community organizations to ensure that patients had housing, legal support, etc., in connection with treating their mental illness and addiction. The State of Addiction Care in the United States Looking more broadly across the United States, how would you characterize the current state of addiction care and harm reduction when it comes to minoritized and marginalized communities? I am hopeful about the possibilities and what we can do with all the resources that we have in this nation. But the reality is that there is still an overwhelming erasure of the stark inequities that exist in terms of the current drug overdose crisis. There’s recent scholarship showing that Black people actually outpaced the rate of White people in drug overdose deaths . That’s not being covered with the same kind of ferociousness as when opioids affected the White population in the 2000s. That’s really important. If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated. “If those managing treatment don’t understand what the statistics are, they don’t assess people from varying backgrounds for the same rates of use, which is a problem. If you don’t assess, then you cannot form a diagnosis. If you don’t form a diagnosis, people cannot be treated.” Another thing that’s really unfortunate is that we have these two tiers of medical care. There is amazing treatment for people who are misusing opioids, and it is still overwhelmingly accessed by White males. Even if they have access to insurance, Black, Latinx, and Indigenous people are not getting access to the lifesaving treatment known as buprenorphine. Bringing Awareness, Leveraging Resources How does your work aim to address these inequities? Part of what I have tried to do in my lab, The Jordan Wellness Collaborative, is bring awareness to these issues and to think about innovative or creative ways that we can get people from racial and ethnic minoritized backgrounds engaged in education. Also, improving treatment initiation and engagement so that if they start addiction treatment they stay because their points of views are valued. Another thing we’re doing is leveraging resources to lift up harm reduction programs led by predominantly Black and Latinx organizations to support their efforts to stop the preventable deaths that are occurring right now. We are also teaching our trainees about safety optimization and about the different cultural considerations for people from racial and ethnic minoritized communities and why they might be hesitant to engage in harm reduction services. Incorporating Inclusion in Practice As the inaugural recipient of this award, do you have any plans to work with the ASAM to advance these types of efforts nationally? I’m excited to be working with ASAM to develop a virtual curriculum, not just for trainees, but to support doctors—addiction specialists who are already in the field and generalists who want to take care of this population but may not have had access to this knowledge during their training. That’s huge because we’re talking about intersecting identities, not just racial and ethnic minoritized groups, but people who are involved in the carceral system, people who are from gender and sexual minority statuses. We’ve just produced the first module in that series. ASAM is rolling that out at the start of the new year. How would you advise practitioners across the United States who want to be more involved in advancing equity and inclusion in their clinical work or in their research? Over the years my colleagues and I have developed a whole set of resources, which are available through the REACH Program I also encourage people to get involved in AAAP, the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatrists. They have provided a clinical support series, and a lot of the webinars over the past 18 months have been created to teach about racial and social justice in addiction. Other groups like the ASAM and American College of Academic Addiction Medicine (ACAAM) are following suit. Ayana Jordan, MD, PhD, is the Barbara Wilson Associate Professor of Psychiatry and an associate professor of population health. She is also the co-lead for community engagement at NYU Langone’s Institute for Excellence in Health Equity. Her clinical and research studies focus on increasing access to evidence-based treatments for racial and ethnic minorities with substance use and other mental health disorders, utilizing community-engaged research principles. Dual Portal Endoscopic Spine Surgery: Honing a Game Changer Traditional spine surgery requires a midline incision and dissection of muscle to expose the underlying bone. More recently, orthopedic surgeons have used tubular retractors and a microscope to perform less invasive operations, but they still require open dissection of the tissue, leading to soft tissue destruction, denervation, and longer periods of postoperative pain and recovery. A breakthrough method debuted at NYU Langone Health in 2022, called dual portal endoscopic spine surgery, is a “game changer” for minimally invasive techniques, says Yong H. Kim, MD , director of the degenerative spine service in the Division of Spine Surgery . Like endoscopic knee surgery, it requires only two tiny incisions for a camera and surgical tools, minimizing pain and recovery times. “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different.” “The postoperative pain and discomfort that patients have described is remarkably different,” Dr. Kim says. Introducing the Endoscopic Technique In June of 2022, Dr. Kim traveled to Korea to learn the technique firsthand from surgeons there. “That was just an unbelievable, eye-opening experience,” he says. “When I came back I said, ‘We’ve got to do this!’” Returning to NYU Langone, Dr. Kim trained Charla R. Fischer, MD , an associate professor of orthopedic surgery. Since last August, the two have performed a few dozen endoscopic spine surgeries. So far, NYU Langone is among only a handful of centers in the United States and the only one in the New York metropolitan region offering the technique. Dr. Fischer is also one of the only female spine surgeons in the world performing the method. Multiple Benefits for Surgeons and Patients The surgical procedure begins with a 4-millimeter cut to insert a camera onto the top of the patient’s spine. A second, even smaller incision further down the back creates a working channel. “Then you triangulate and meet at the intended surgical target,” Dr. Kim says. “While the camera is illuminating the space, you can do all of the work.” Most degenerative lumbar spine surgeries can use the technique, including discectomies, laminectomies, and fusions. As the surgeons hone their skills, they can apply it to the thoracic and cervical spine as well, Dr. Kim says. “Our goal is to do the same surgical procedures in the spine, but with smaller access to the area and less tissue disruption and muscle and bone resection on the way,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good.” The method’s flexibility provides a better ergonomic option for surgeons and allows them to more easily see across the spine. Because the surgery requires only a minimal closure of skin and not muscle fascia, the procedure time can be reduced as well. Dr. Kim adds that the capital investment is considerably less than that required for conventional endoscopic surgery. “This technique utilizes everything that we already have, such as arthroscopic equipment that we use for knee and shoulder surgeries,” he says. For patients, an additional benefit is a lessened need for postsurgical narcotics and an accompanying reduction in the risk of side effects such as drowsiness and constipation. “You don’t have that additive effect of issues related to the narcotic use,” Dr. Fischer says. “I think as patients learn about this particular technique, they’re going to start asking about it because the outcomes are so good,” she adds. New Opportunities for Collaboration Conducting the new surgery at the main medical center gives the surgeons access to additional tools used by a range of other specialists, Dr. Fischer says. Likewise, nurses in different services provide valuable input about tools and techniques. “If we had been at the orthopedic hospital, it would’ve been easy to use the arthroscopy tools like a knee and shoulder scope,” she says. “But we’re at the main medical center, where everyone’s pioneering at the next level. It was really fun to see and learn what other surgical specialties are doing.” Beyond training NYU Langone’s five orthopedic fellows, the plans to host an annual cadaver lab to teach other surgeons in the region and meet the growing demand. Colleagues in the Department of Neurosurgery have expressed interest as well. “The Korean surgeons made this technique really good,” Dr. Kim says. “We want to try to make it even more innovative.” Spine Surgery, Orthopedic Surgery Charla R. Fischer, MD, is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery, director of quality and patient safety in the Division of Spine Surgery, and a spine surgery specialist at NYU Langone’s Spine Center. Orthopedic Surgery, Spine Surgery Yong H. Kim, MD, is a clinical professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the degenerative spine service in the Department or Othropedic Surgery’s Division of Spine Surgery. Oocyte Cryopreservation Outperforms IVF for Delayed Childbearing PHOTO: Juliana Thomas Photography For the growing numbers of women in the U.S. and many other industrialized countries who are postponing childbearing beyond age 35, oocyte cryopreservation (OC) has become a sought-after fertility preservation method. However, most frozen oocytes have not yet been implanted and data on results remain scarce. Experts at NYU Langone Health recently published the largest U.S. study to date on thaw outcomes from OC performed for age-related fertility decline. The report was based on 15 years of electronic medical records from the Notably, the team found the live birth rate from OC significantly exceeded the live birth rate per cycle in women using IVF at a later age. Live births using OC were 39 percent compared to IVF rates of 21.1 percent in women ages 38 to 40 and 11.1 percent in women ages 41 to 42, as reported by the CDC “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD “Better understanding the live birth rate from egg freezing for age-related fertility decline is necessary to inform patient decision-making,” says lead author Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD. “Our findings shed light on the factors that track with successful births, which include careful screening of embryos to be thawed and implanted.” The Benefits of Early Preservation The researchers examined the records of 543 patients seeking OC services at the center between 2005 and 2020. The median age at first OC was 38.3, and the median age at thaw was 42.6. Certain variables correlated with even higher success rates. Among women who were under 38 at first OC, the rate of live births was 51 percent. Across all ages at first OC, the rate rose to 58 percent for women who thawed more than 20 mature eggs. Women who were under 38 at first OC and thawed more than 20 mature eggs achieved a live birth rate of 70 percent. The length of frozen oocyte storage did not affect outcomes. Preimplantation genetic screening with embryos from frozen eggs resulted in lower miscarriage rates and higher live birth rates per transfer. Such screening also allows for single embryo transfers, yielding singleton pregnancies, which are safer for both the mother and child. The Advantages of Real-Life Data Although a few previous studies had shown that OC results in euploidy and pregnancy rates comparable with IVF, most of these included patients with infertility and cancer. The NYU Langone study excluded patients with such diagnoses, focusing on women freezing eggs solely as insurance against age-related fertility decline. Also different from previous studies, the new publication reported real OC data rather than relying on predictive algorithms that extrapolate outcomes from IVF patients and egg donors. “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy.” “Our results provide realistic expectations for those considering oocyte preservation and demonstrate that egg freezing technology empowers women with improved reproductive autonomy,” adds study senior author , director of the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. “As younger patients freeze eggs and do more than one cycle, the success rates will be even higher than reported in this study.” Sarah Druckenmiller Cascante, MD, is a fellow in the Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility. Her research focuses on fertility preservation and infertility. Alert Banners Increase Prescribing Rates of Heart Failure Medication An automated system that flags patients who could most benefit from mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), lifesaving drugs for heart failure, more than doubled new prescriptions, according to a pilot program tested by researchers at NYU Langone Health. The study, recently presented at the annual conference of the American College of Cardiology and simultaneously Journal of the American College of Cardiology , is the first to directly compare the effectiveness of alert message types that address heart failure. “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs.” “Our findings suggest that tailored electronic notifications can boost the prescription of lifesaving drugs,” says study lead author and cardiologist , a clinical instructor in the “By compiling key information in one place, the system may help providers spend less time searching through medical records during a visit and more time speaking with their patients.” Testing the Potential of Automated Alerts While MRAs can greatly increase heart failure survival rates, past studies have shown that almost two-thirds of eligible patients are not prescribed these drugs, says Dr. Mukhopadhyay. Part of the challenge in prescribing MRAs is that the medical information needed to determine a patient’s eligibility is scattered throughout their electronic health record. As a result, experts have been exploring the use of digital messaging tools that automatically analyze standard clinical guidelines and relevant medical data to make treatment decisions easier. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care.” In the new study, the researchers designed a pilot program to find the most effective type of digital alert, testing two automated technologies over six months. For one of the technologies, alerts appeared on the top corner of patient healthcare charts, which are routinely reviewed during visits. They included data that may inform decisions about MRA therapy, such as blood pressure, estimated glomerular filtration rate, and potassium levels in the blood. For the other technology tested, cardiologists received a monthly message within the healthcare system’s internal messaging platform that included a list of those eligible for MRAs. Through this “email,” healthcare providers could open medical charts and read information relevant for prescribing MRAs. Between April and October 2022, the research team tested the notification systems at more than 60 cardiology outpatient clinics. Strong Support for Digital Messaging The results showed that cardiologists who received a banner-like alert on their computer screen prescribed MRA therapy for about 30 percent of their patients over the course of the trial. Those who were instead sent monthly email-like messages prescribed MRA therapy roughly 16 percent of the time. By contrast, those who received neither type of message prescribed the therapy for 12 percent of their patients. “Well-designed electronic tools can be a rapid, low-cost, and impactful way to improve care,” adds Dr. Mukhopadhyay. While the results are highly promising, the researchers caution that this technology was only tested in cardiology practices within a large urban healthcare system. The team plans to explore the effectiveness of these tools in other settings in the future. Amrita Mukhopadhyay, MD, is a clinical instructor in the Department of Medicine and member of the Leon H. Charney Division of Cardiology. Her research interests include health services, quality of care, outcomes, healthcare delivery science, and clinical decision support and implementation. Testing Pharmacy-Based Harm Reduction Programs for Drug Users For the past two decades, Crystal F. Lewis, PhD , the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health, has studied the epidemiology of substance use, with an eye toward improving public health approaches to harm reduction and access to care, regardless of active use. A recurring thread in her research has been the potential for pharmacy-based interventions to eliminate disparities and improve health outcomes for communities contending with substance use and related medical and social conditions. “My goal is to find creative ways to deliver care that’s amenable and relevant to communities who have historically been neglected by our healthcare systems,” Dr. Lewis explains. “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors—and particularly independent, minority-owned pharmacists operating in low-income communities.” “In many Black, Latinx, and immigrant communities, people use pharmacists for medical advice and counseling instead of relying upon doctors.” A recent NIH-funded study published in the Journal of Substance Abuse Treatment led by Dr. Lewis and Babak Tofighi, MD , assistant professor of population health, assessed community pharmacists’ perspectives regarding naloxone dispensation and counseling in nonurban areas of New York State. The goal, says Dr. Lewis, was to better understand factors influencing pharmacy provision of overdose education and naloxone distribution. Probing the Perspectives of Frontline Providers Overdose prevention efforts have been shown to be an effective model for reducing fatalities among persons who use opioids, including heroin. New York State’s Opioid Overdose Prevention Program (OOPP) has established standing orders for naloxone dispensation in pharmacies. The medication can be covered under Medicaid and most commercial health plans. Pharmacists also offer printed handouts educating about opioid overdose, as well as topics such as storing naloxone and obtaining refills. The recent mixed-methods study led by Dr. Lewis’s team was conducted among 60 community pharmacists located in 6 New York counties and registered to participate in OOPP. The 29-item semistructured survey revealed an array of insights that Dr. Lewis says might be applicable to similar programs nationwide. Over 58 percent of participating pharmacists reported dispensing naloxone, with an average median of 2 prescriptions per month. Most shared positive beliefs about pharmacy naloxone dispensation, including support for OOPP (93 percent), that pharmacists should play a bigger role in overdose prevention (87 percent), and that naloxone reduces opioid-related overdose (88 percent). Most reported no loss of business related to OOPP participation (85 percent), and no instances of theft or crime by naloxone customers (80 percent). Most were also supportive of expanding pharmacy-based access to vaccinations, referrals to free or on-site HIV testing, informational resources on safe syringe use and disposal, and referrals to medical and social services, including pharmacy-based treatment access for substance use disorders. “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services.” “Our findings reveal high acceptability for naloxone provision and expansion of pharmacy practice to include a wide variety of public health services,” Dr. Lewis notes. “Coupling pharmacy-based overdose prevention with offerings like HIV and HCV screenings, vaccinations, and access to telemedicine could further increase engagement in services that are otherwise inaccessible due to social and structural barriers, including the stigma and discrimination commonly inflicted upon communities of color who are heavily burdened with opioid use.” Crystal F. Lewis, PhD, is the Laurie M. Tisch Scholar for Racial Equity in Mental Health and an associate professor of psychiatry. She also serves as the division head of Social Solutions and Services Research at the Nathan S. Kline Institute for Psychiatric Research and as director of the Center for Research on Cultural and Structural Equity in Behavioral Health. Her research interests center on the epidemiology of substance abuse–associated harms, and the social, cultural, and structural forces driving inequity in prevention and treatment access. Building the Case for Descemet Stripping Only in Fuchs Dystrophy Surgeon’s view of the Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure. Kathryn Colby, MD, PhD , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, MD, Professor and chair in the Department of Ophthalmology, describes an “a-ha” moment that led her to consider removal of Descemet membrane without donor tissue transplant as a possible treatment for Fuchs endothelial corneal dystrophy (FECD). It was 2013, and new research was emerging on the pathophysiology of FECD, as well as anecdotal case reports of corneal clearance in FECD without insertion of donor corneal tissues. Dr. Colby heard a colleague present at EuCornea on a small series of cases involving deliberate descemetorhexis. Convinced that this strategy should work in FECD, she decided to try it. In a report in , Dr. Colby describes how these observations led to the development of her Descemet stripping only (DSO) procedure, its current status, and what successful DSO tells us about the pathophysiology of FECD. “The corneal world was skeptical when we began discussing our in 2016,” she says, “but this is a revolution in the surgical treatment of Fuchs disease. It’s been a phenomenal arc from discovery to practice.” The Role of ROCK Inhibitors FECD accounts for more than a third of the corneal transplants performed in the United States. For many years, the only transplantation option consisted of penetrating keratoplasty, which carries risk of tissue rejection and blindness. In 2012, endothelial keratoplasty became the most commonly performed keratoplasty procedure, and selective keratoplasty became the primary surgical treatment for FECD. As clinical evidence mounted for minimally invasive descemetorhexis without keraplasty, the next major advance was a report that a Rho-associated protein kinase (ROCK) inhibitor—ripasudil, approved in Japan as glaucoma therapy—rescued two patients with slow-to-clear FECD “We know that the endothelial cells don’t divide after birth, but this showed that they retain some replicative capability,” Dr. Colby explains. A Promising Case Series The DSO procedure pioneered by Dr. Colby combines removing the center part of the cornea’s endothelial layer with the novel application of a ROCK inhibitor to trigger cell migration and regeneration. “Equipping the body with its own means to heal is always preferable to foreign transplant, and we now understand that endothelial cells do in fact have that capability once damaged cells  are removed,” she says. Citicoline Protects Against Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma without Altering IOP Study shows citicoline improves outcomes for elevated intraocular pressure (IOP). In chronic IOP elevation, oral citicoline treatment significantly reduced visual acuity decline, microstructural integrity loss, axonal degeneration, and demyelination—all without altering IOP. SOURCE: Neurotherapeutics. 2021 Apr;18(2):1339-1359. Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the only modifiable risk factor for glaucoma. Yet, neurodegeneration may continue despite adequate IOP control. Citicoline, a chemical known to protect nerve cells , also slows glaucoma, found a Neurotherapeutics Kevin Chan, PhD Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory , was senior author of the study. The researchers used a murine model of glaucoma and multi-parametric MRI, behavioral assessments, and histology to evaluate citicoline’s effect on different magnitudes and durations of IOP elevation. Additionally, they evaluated the effects of oral citicoline treatment as a neurotherapeutic in experimental glaucoma. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments.” In rats with mildly elevated eye pressure, tissues along the visual pathway decayed for up to five weeks after the injury occurred. In a chronic IOP elevation model, three weeks of oral citicoline treatment substantially reduced visual brain integrity loss and visual acuity decline without altering IOP. “In addition, choline metabolites and functional brain signals restored to near-normal levels,” Dr. Chan says. These effects were sustained for another three weeks after treatment was discontinued. “Our study suggests that citicoline protects against glaucoma through a mechanism different from that of standard IOP treatments,” Dr. Chan says. Kevin C. Chan, PhD Kevin C. Chan, PhD, is an assistant professor of ophthalmology, radiology, neuroscience, and biomedical engineering, and director of the Neuroimaging & Visual Science Laboratory. His research focuses on developing and applying new, noninvasive methods for imaging degeneration, development, protection, plasticity, and regeneration in the visual system. Protecting Patients With Obesity From Severe COVID-19 Bariatric surgery may lower risk of poor outcomes from COVID-19. Emerging Trends in Pancreatic Cancer Management Two pioneers in novel treatments discuss the most significant innovations on the horizon. Deep Tumors Fully Resected with Endoscopic Submucosal Dissection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. Patients Benefits of ESD Gastroenterologists at NYU Langone Health are increasingly turning to an outpatient procedure to remove early cancers from the gastrointestinal tract. The procedure, known as endoscopic submucosal dissection, or ESD, is allowing more patients to avoid complex surgeries such as esophagectomy. “Most patients who receive ESD are discharged the next day, after observation. This is a major difference from surgical resection which often requires an inpatient stay of up to 10 days or more,” says , chief of endoscopy and one of only a small number of physicians in the U.S. performing and teaching the highly specialized procedure. During the procedure, Haber uses a high-definition endoscope to locate and mark tumors within the esophagus, stomach, or colon of anesthetized patients. He then injects the area with a solution that includes epinephrine, hetastarch, and methylene blue to elevate the lesion and protect surrounding mucosa, before removing the whole tumor with an electrocautery knife. The approach allows a more precise resection than other techniques, Haber says. More Nuanced Assessment “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece to ensure that all cancerous cells are taken out.” “ESD is a more effective option than endoscopic mucosal resection because it allows a deeper resection. It also allows us to remove the lesion in one piece.” Whole, ESD-resected tumors allow for more accurate histopathological assessment. Outcomes from ESD are also comparable to other surgical interventions, Haber says, with acute bleeding as the most common adverse event, followed by perforation, but all manageable with endoscopic treatment. Broad Treatment Potential Patients with Barrett’s esophagus, early-stage dysplastic cancers, or superficial tumors of the esophagus, stomach, or colon all stand to benefit from ESD. These patients would otherwise face invasive surgery to remove parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Deep Tumors Prepared for ESD Endoscopic image showing an esophageal tumor, with margins (yellow arrows) marked by electrocautery. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Endoscopic submucosal dissection (ESD) is an emerging technique in the U.S. to resect deep GI tumors. First, tumor margins are marked using electrocautery, as shown here in a 60-year-old patient with a history of acid reflux and Barrett’s esophagus. Prior biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma. Improved Tumor Visibility Endoscopic image showing the lesion elevated from the muscle layer. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Submucosal injection is used to help elevate the lesion from the muscle layer and improve its visibility. Tissue traction further exposes the submucosal space. Whole Tumor Resection Endoscopic image showing the submucosal dissection performed using an electrocautery knife. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Moving an electrocautery knife circumferentially, the endoscopist performs the submucosal dissection, peeling the intact lesion away from the surrounding esophageal muscle layer with subsequent dissection of the connective tissue of the submucosa beneath the lesion. Entire Specimen Analysis Image of the excised lesion, mounted before being submitted for histopathology. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Once resected, the whole lesion can be pinned and sent for histopathology. Pathological Finding Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining revealing esophageal adenocarcinoma. SOURCE: Katherine Sun, MD, PhD. In this case, pathology revealed esophageal invasive adenocarcinoma with clear margins and no lymphovascular or perineural invasion. Minimal Damage, Healthy Outcomes Endoscopic image 3 months following the procedure showing healthy esophageal tissue. SOURCE: Sofia Yuen, MD. Bleeding sites are kept clearly visible throughout ESD, allowing quick coagulation when needed. The lesion is completely resected without surgery. At three months, follow-up endoscopy (depicted above) for this patient showed a single healthy-appearing scar with no stenosis or inflammation found in the entire esophagus. Gregory B. Haber, MD, is a gastroenterologist and chief of endoscopy. His clinical interests include developing minimally invasive endoscopic procedures to treat early cancer of the digestive system and mentoring others in advanced endoscopic techniques and technologies. Helping Women Ascend the Ophthalmic Pyramid Christina R. Prescott, MD, PhD, and Kathryn A. Colby, MD, PhD. PHOTO: NYU Langone Staff While approximately one-quarter of practicing ophthalmologists are female, the numbers lag when it comes to composition of ophthalmic journal editorial and professional society boards and leadership positions in academic ophthalmology departments, says internationally renowned cornea specialist , the Elisabeth J. Cohen, M.D., Professor of Ophthalmology and chair of the Department of Ophthalmology. Dr. Colby, who joined NYU Langone Health in 2020, recently authored an editorial in JAMA Ophthalmology on the status of women in ophthalmology. recently joined NYU Langone as director of the Division of Cornea Services and vice chair for education in the Department of Ophthalmology. Here, Drs. Colby and Prescott discuss the state of gender parity, the value of mentorship, and strategies to improve gender equity in the next generation of ophthalmologists. Inequities in Publishing and Speaking Dr. Colby, you’ve written and spoken extensively about gender parity in ophthalmology, especially regarding publications in peer-reviewed journals and invited talks at national conferences. Where does the field land on gender parity? Dr. Colby: Ophthalmology is still largely a specialty of white men! Recent studies show that ophthalmology departments are among the least diverse of the medical specialties. Women ophthalmologists do a reasonably good job of publishing, given that the vast majority of ophthalmologists are not in academics. However, when it comes to invited editorials and commentaries, recent articles that show that women lag behind men—that’s what triggered my last editorial. One study showed the proportion of female ophthalmology editorialists is now approximately 30 percent, up from less than 20 percent in the years between 2005 and 2009, which is encouraging. But most female authors tended to be first authors rather than senior authors. And only one of the 20 journals included had a female editor-in-chief during the time of this study. The same study showed that only two of 15 society presidents were women in 2018. While there’s been an increase in the overall number of female speakers at nine major ophthalmology meetings, female speakers at national forums tend to give submitted, rather than invited talks. Not surprisingly, having a woman on the program committee appeared to increase the number of women on the stage. What are some steps that can be taken to ensure more women are recognized? The composition of editorial boards and program committees is critical. Some journals do a very good job of gender parity in both their editorial boards and invited submissions. When you’re invited to write your opinion, de facto, you’re a thought leader. Adopting masked reviews is one way—hiding both the name and institution of the author—and some journals have gone to that. Also, as an editorial board member, it is necessary