seminar and teach in events; • Provide summaries of important studies related to health and housing in accessible formats (infographics or brief key points, social media, etc.), toward the goal of improving translation of research to practice and policy; • Partner with an organization such as the Op Ed Project to provide a private group workshop and mentoring for individuals experiencing homelessness and housing insecurity to develop their skills in writing and successfully pitching op eds; • Create a Health x Housing Lab Speakers Bureau to support and promote the voices of people with lived experience of homelessness and housing instability. The Speakers Bureau would provide a public, searchable website that includes profiles of people with lived experience of homelessness and housing insecurity who are available for speaking engagements; 81 • Incorporate people with experience of homelessness and housing insecurity into the planning and organization of Lab events and provide compensation for this work; and • Continue to grow our capacity to study and evaluate interventions aimed at eliminating homelessness and housing insecurity, and improving health and health equity. 10. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de Hábitos Saludables Stemming from the 2013 CHNAA, the Family Health Centers’ Department of Community Based Programs convened a design team to develop a pediatric obesity program to address the high rates of obesity among children in Sunset Park, supplementing the care and referrals routinely provided by pediatric primary care providers. The program design team consisting of a pediatric primary care physician, nutritionists, community planners, and social workers used child and adolescent intervention design recommendations from the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) as a guideline for the intervention and adopted concepts from the following evidence based, multi component programs and curricula: Media Smart Youth; We Can! Energize Our Families; Nutrition to Grow On; and Eat Healthy, Be Active. Community members representing the targeted audience also participated in the design and implementation plans. The program was piloted in 2015 and has been adjusted based on program evaluations and a NYU Langone Health Department of Population Health Center for Healthcare Innovation and Delivery Science (CHIDS) research study. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de Hábitos Saludables (formerly called Healthy Families Program/ Programa de familias saludables) consists of 12 multi disciplinary sessions for 9 11 year olds and their parents. The intervention focuses on this age group because it is the time when children become more independent from their parents and are able to evaluate and alter their dietary habits and attitudes. Parents are included as participants since evidence shows that programs that engage family members have greater success in stabilizing or reducing children’s BMI. The program is culturally relevant to the local Latinx population and is conducted in English and Spanish. Each session consists of three components: § Customized nutrition education, including family meal preparation facilitated by a trained chef; § Support groups for parents and children; and § Physical fitness activity. The customized nutrition education component is facilitated by a nutritionist and focuses on the 5 2 1 0 model, a nationally recognized, research validated childhood obesity prevention program based on evidence informed recommendations from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The family meal preparation component was added to the program in 2018 through a partnership with Common Threads. Their research based methodology addresses the many factors that influence a child's decision making personal, interpersonal, and environmental in order to effect long term behavior change. The organization’s family cooking classes have shown promise in improving family vegetable consumption (a goal of the Healthy Habits program), which can lead to long term positive health outcomes. Separate support groups for children and parents offer opportunities to address questions and challenges, help them adopt strategies for setting limits and promoting healthy behaviors, and build peer support. The physical fitness component focuses on low or no cost activities that can be done in the home or through local community resources. 82 The program is offered in two models: once weekly (over 12 weeks) and twice weekly (over six weeks) to accommodate family and program implementation partner schedules. It is held at a Family Health Centers site and at P.S. 503/506, in close collaboration with a local preventive service agency, the Center for Family Life’s after school program; school administration; and the Family Health Centers’ School based Health Center, which provides medical and mental health services on site, offering a unique opportunity to reach children where they spend many hours of the day. Children and families are recruited through referrals from primary care and school based health providers, referrals from community programs, and direct outreach to community residents via mailing, flyering and calling. Healthy Habits Program/Programa de hábitos saludables is designed to: § Stabilize the participating child’s BMI; and § Support child and family behavior change based on 5 2 1 0: Fruit and vegetable consumption (5 or more fruits and vegetables per day); Daily screen time (2 hours or less of recreational screen time per day); Physical activity (1 hour or more of daily physical activity); and Sugar sweetened beverage consumption (0 sugary drinks). Progress and Impact The Healthy Habits Program/ Programa de hábitos saludables was suspended after the winter cycle of 2019 in response to the changing needs in the Sunset Park community during the COVID 19 pandemic. Our school partners reported an increase in the number of families that were experiencing food insecurity during this time. In addition, many residents experienced high rates of job loss due to their employment in hard hit sectors such as the restaurant industry; many also faced challenges in accessing crucial benefits due to their immigration status. A dramatic increase in the demand for emergency food and social services in the community led us to focus on prioritizing the immediate food security needs of Sunset Park families through the Healthy Food Initiative (see Section II.C.1). We ensured that the school community received information about how to access needed emergency food pantries and case management services, as well as connecting past Healthy Habits participants to cooking and nutrition educational webinars provided by our partner, Common Threads. Plans We anticipate a sustained focus on the Healthy Food Initiative for the duration of this Community Service Plan cycle. We do not plan to resume the Healthy Habits Program/ Programa de hábitos saludables at this time, but we will continue to monitor community needs and resources, and will assess opportunities to resume programming if/as needed. 83 D. Programs, Progress and Plans: Promoting Healthy Women, Infants and Children 1. ParentChild+ The two critical aspects of young children’s early literacy social emotional development and language development are challenged when a child lives in a home environment that is stressful, unpredictable, or has limited resources. ParentChild+ (PC+; formerly known as the Parent Child Home Program), a national, evidence based early literacy, parenting and school readiness program, serves low income, immigrant families in Sunset Park, Brooklyn (https://www.parentchildplus.org). PC+ makes a significant difference in the lives of young children and their families by supporting families as they: § Build positive parent child verbal and non verbal interaction; § Develop positive parenting skills; § Develop their child’s early literacy skills that are essential for school readiness; and § Enhance their child’s conceptual and social emotional development. The program provides intensive home visiting to families with children between the ages of two and four years old who are challenged by poverty, low levels of formal education, English language and literacy barriers, and other inequities. PC+ families participate in two, 30 minute home visits per week over a two year period, and receive educational materials to support positive interactions and development. During home visits, a trained Early Learning Specialist brings a book or educational toy as a gift for the family and uses it to model for the parent and child, play, verbal interaction, and reading activities that help to create a language rich home environment. 84 PC+ meets all the best practice criteria set forth in the most recent research: it is an early intervention/prevention model; it focuses on early literacy within social emotional and cognitive/language development contexts; and it emphasizes parental responsibility. It also honors each family’s culture, uses developmentally and linguistically appropriate books and toys, connects the family with community resources to address family support needs, and emphasizes the importance of training and supervision of Early Learning Specialists. Services are delivered in the home languages of the families by staff reflective of the cultures and languages of participants. The program’s design and activities also reduce risk factors associated with child abuse, maltreatment and neglect, and introduce or increase protective factors. The evidence base for PC+ is strong. Studies have consistently documented an increase in warm, responsive and steady routines and interactions in participating families from pre to post program participation. Research has also consistently found that program children enter school with the requisite social emotional skills to be successful in a classroom environment. Child participants outperform at risk control or comparison groups on various cognitive measures and close the achievement gap with middle class children. Randomized controlled trials have also demonstrated cognitive benefits for toddlers immediately after program participation. The Family Health Centers at NYU Langone leads this program in Sunset Park, supporting staff, resource development, design and implementation. Additional partners, such as IncludeNYC, provide parent workshops on critical early childhood topics such as understanding children with different abilities and guided play; and Bank Street College of Education provides staff development opportunities on topics including supporting language development for emerging bilinguals. Families are referred to an array of organizations, agencies, and providers to access needed services within and outside of the Family Health Centers network, including services for legal needs, immigration, and domestic violence. Progress and impact During the reporting period, ParentChild+ served 87 families. Through ParentChild+: § 5,924 home visits were completed; § 1,549 developmentally appropriate books were provided to families; § 1,410 developmentally appropriate educational toys were provided to families; Here’s what participants said about ParentChild+ 2019 2022: “This program has taught me how to better accompany and grow with my children.” “You have done a great job. As a parent, I really appreciated the program. It helped a lot in my child's growth (and) taught me how to use toys and books to interact with my child and learn.” “As a parent, I really appreciate the program. It helped my children grow and also taught me how I can interact with my children and learn to grow together.” “I also want to thank [my Early Learning Specialist] for her patient help and teaching me how to interact, learn and communicate with my children. Every week, activity tips were sent to me, which helped me a lot. Because of the pandemic … we did not stop learning … which I feel most happy about. Thank you!” 85 § 10 family learning trips and celebration events were offered; § 23 virtual playgroups were hosted; and § 4 parent workshops were offered. The program retained capacity during the reporting period, an extremely high retention rate considering the many challenges faced by families because of the COVID 19 pandemic. This persistence speaks to families’ resolve in ensuring that early childhood supports from both program staff and parents continued, uninterrupted, resulting in positive, on track social emotional development. Families also demonstrated great resiliency, pivoting immediately to remote visits in March 2020. ParentChild+ leadership team’s commitment to supervision and professional development, fidelity to the evidence based model, and hiring and retaining culturally representative program staff also contributed to attaining the program’s targeted outputs and outcomes. ParentChild+ creatively transitioned from in person visits to virtual home visitation at the onset of the pandemic. All Early Learning Specialists maintained their home visit schedule and connected with each family twice a week via Zoom. The visits maintained the original intent of programming: to support parent child interaction and the development of children’s early literacy skills by engaging families in reading and play activities, while also providing additional tips and educational resources to encourage parents to interact with their children throughout the day. Staff work to help families establish structures and routines to help alleviate stress and build protective factors. They successfully used Vroom Tips to support families during this period of change. (Vroom (https://www.vroom.org/) is a national early learning initiative that empowers caregivers to play a proactive role in their children’s early brain development.) Program staff observed the stress the pandemic has had on children and curated tips to help parents regulate their children’s emotions and provide calming techniques. Our program delivered program books and toys to families’ homes for use during and after the virtual home visits. While Early Learning Specialists have traditionally provided families with resources and referrals as needed, the COVID 19 crisis necessitated a more formal approach. ParentChild+ implemented formal screenings with families to identify basic needs that pre existed or arose due to the pandemic, including wage loss, food insecurity, domestic violence and mental health concerns. The screening tool also assessed a family’s access to and ability to use technology to effectively participate in programming as well as other needed services. When a parent screens positive, a referral to FHC’s Family Support Services is made and the family is connected to needed services. Resources obtained by families include emergency food services, educational resources, mental health support and access to health services. 86 ParentChild+ uses two validated tools Parent and Child Together (PACT) and Child Behavior Traits (CBT) to assess its impact. Both assessments are conducted by Early Learning Specialists, who observe the frequency with which parents and children demonstrate specific skills during sessions. These skills are related to the program’s overarching focuses: effective parent child interaction, the social emotional development of the child and their pre literacy skills development, all of which are essential components of a child’s school readiness. Baseline assessments are conducted at the beginning of each program cycle and are used to customize the support given to each family. Assessments are re administered at the end of the program cycle to measure skill acquisition and/or maintenance. The program works to support parents and children in demonstrating these skills “frequently” or “always” on the post assessment. The program’s impact is reflected in the outcomes of the 55 families that completed the full two year intervention. After two years of program participation, 45 parents () frequently demonstrated effective engagement and interaction skills and 51 of the 55 graduating children () frequently demonstrated school readiness and pre literacy skills at the conclusion of the program, surpassing our target. Plans Over the next three years, ParentChild+ will support 120 unique Sunset Park families. During their participation in the program, families will receive 8,280 home visits, 1,980 educational toys, and 2,160 books. The program will retain of enrolled families for the two year program duration, and will provide both in person and remote services depending on the requirements of the pandemic. At the end of the two year intervention, of enrolled parents will consistently demonstrate increased knowledge and awareness of child development and increased use of positive parenting techniques, while children will demonstrate improved social and emotional development, indicating increases in school readiness. ParentChild+’s 2022 2024objective is for of the enrolled children to demonstrate on target social emotional development by the end of the two year program. 2. ParentCorps A wealth of research shows that early childhood education can have profound impacts on children’s lifelong health and well being. This evidence has fueled the rapid expansion of pre kindergarten, which is considered a powerful policy lever for children of color facing inequities rooted in structural racism. Though the expansion of pre K holds promise, decades of research and practice at the Center for Early Childhood Health & Development (CEHD) highlight that educators often feel unprepared to engage with families, especially families whose culture and lived racial experiences are different from their own. In close partnership with pre K programs, ParentCorps works to build a different pre K experience — one 87 that centers race and culture, engages parents as partners, and supports children’s social emotional well being — to help unlock the full promise of early childhood education. ParentCorps includes three components to help school leaders, teachers and parents create environments that are safe, predictable, and nurturing for children: ▪ Professional Development: Group based experiential training and one on one coaching for pre K school staff. Professional Development is designed to support school staff to form strong, culturally responsive relationships with families and promote children’s social emotional well being. School staff engage in authentic dialogue — examining their beliefs, reflecting on the challenges families face, and learning the science of early childhood development — to build capacity to engage with children and families in new ways. ▪ Parenting Program: Group based program for all families as part of the pre K experience. Parenting Program is designed to support families to promote children’s early learning and development. In a culturally affirming environment, parents connect, share experiences, and explore evidence based parenting practices they may choose to incorporate at home, in alignment with their values. ▪ Friends School: Classroom based social emotional learning program for pre K children. Friends School is based on the wealth of evidence that young children’s social emotional learning is a critical foundation for school success and lifelong health. Children learn to communicate their thoughts and feelings, develop a positive sense of self (with a focus on racial and cultural identities and family pride), build healthy relationships — and have fun! Strong evidence of ParentCorps’ impact on children, families and teachers comes from two randomized controlled trials with more than 1,200 Black and brown children in low income neighborhoods in NYC (see Appendix E). In a cost effectiveness analysis, ParentCorps was found to have a 4:1 return on investment over and above the well documented benefits of pre K. ParentCorps Theory of Action 88 Progress and Impact With support from NYU Langone’s Community Service Plan, and building on its success in scaling its model to more than 50 pre K programs across the City, over the past three years, ParentCorps has applied an intentional place based, community engaged strategy to integrate ParentCorps in Sunset Park. This work has included four phases: Phase 1: Assessing interest and fit (September 2019 March 2020) In September 2019, we designed a mixed methods approach to assess: 1) pre K program leaders’ interest in ParentCorps; 2) readiness of program leadership and staff to implement programs; and 3) the need to tailor program content or delivery strategies for the Sunset Park community. Before COVID 19, this assessment (involving interviews with leaders from three pre K programs and in depth focus groups with teachers from two pre K programs) found: ● Pre K programs in Sunset Park had strong interest in ParentCorps; ● Pre K programs had the capacity to engage in Professional Development as a first step; ● There were no explicit needs to modify program content, and the flexibility built into ParentCorps’ program model to meet the needs of schools and centers across NYC held true in this context. Phase 2: Responsive approach to the needs of pre K programs during early phase of COVID 19 (March August 2020) In order to better understand needs arising from the COVID 19 pandemic and the related closure of schools, we distributed leader surveys to 32 pre K programs (receiving responses from seven). All respondents indicated the usefulness of: 1) online communities for teachers, leaders, and parents; 2) social emotional learning resources for families; and 3) a community resource guide for families. We also conducted two focus groups with school staff in May of 2021, centered on digital tools and technology used in the work of Sunset Park pre K programs. The data highlighted two additional areas of support: 1) digital resources for school based staff and families; and 2) support around access to and use of digital tools and platforms. Based on the needs identified, we moved to share responsive parenting and social emotional learning supports to as many Sunset Park pre K programs and caregivers as possible: ● In the early months of school closures, we packaged supportive tools (including handouts, educational videos, podcasts, and more) and sent them to all 32 pre K programs and one kindergarten program (PS 94), in addition to sharing tools directly with caregivers in other programs via texts and emails. ● In the summer of 2020, we created and offered two leader focused professional development sessions titled “Leading through Crisis: Supportive Leadership in Sunset Park during COVID 19,” covering practical strategies to support grief and loss and promote trauma informed practices, and to support the transition back to school. Leaders from four programs attended at least one of the two sessions; they expressed deep appreciation for the supportive space, sense of affirmation and community provided to them, and access to ParentCorps tools. 89 Phase 3: Responsive programming during the 2020 2021 school year We established the Sunset Park ParentCorps Community Advisory Board (CAB) in September 2020, including leaders from six pre K programs and one elementary school. The CAB also included a racially, ethnically, linguistically and positionally diverse team of six individuals from NYU’s Center for Early Childhood Health and Development, who were active participants in meetings and collectively assessed the process and progress of the CAB. The CAB met a total of seven times in the first year focusing on three main agenda items: 1. Identifying pre K community priorities, needs and interests; 2. Sharing ways to increase engagement with families and caregivers, and include greater input from the community in identifying needs and guiding program implementation; and 3. Creating a feedback loop to inform programmatic adaptations and ensure that services are culturally relevant, useful and linguistically appropriate for families, educators and leaders across pre K programs. Data collected from all CAB members during in session discussions and post session feedback reflected high satisfaction with the planning, implementation, collaboration, and support within the meeting space throughout all meetings. Snapshot of Sunset Park Community Advisory Board Meeting in November 2021 In addition to forming the CAB, ParentCorps continued to respond to the need, highlighted by CAB members, for spaces and strategies to support the well being of teachers, leaders and families, and strengthen their ability to respond to the challenges faced at both home and school. In response, ParentCorps offered the following programs: ● Professional Learning: The ParentCorps team facilitated a total of seven virtual professional learning sessions for the Sunset Park Community (five for teachers and two for leaders) that focused on Empathy for Self and Others, Anxiety in Young Children and Adults, and Culturally Responsive Education. Eleven Sunset Park schools were represented across the teacher sessions. We also provided four self guided Professional Learning modules to all Sunset Park pre K programs and program families. 90 Data collected from the Sunset Park facilitated Professional Learning sessions demonstrated a high level of appreciation for and relevance of the professional learning content and space. Across all five sessions, most Teachers (> ) expressed interest in continuing virtual conversations with other educators around the topics discussed. The attendance at these sessions demonstrated the relevance of the topics (42 educators attended the sessions on Empathy; 40 educators attended the sessions on Anxiety; 12 educators attended the sessions on Culturally Responsive Education). Teachers and leaders expressed appreciation for the opportunity to self reflect and share openly with colleagues, and discussions demonstrated the need for more mental health support for teachers. ● Parenting through the Pandemic: This four session series for caregivers was culturally adapted and offered in Spanish and Mandarin, reaching 100 families from 14 pre K programs. These provided space for community support as well as sharing of strategies helpful for caregivers of young children. From feedback collected across the series, we learned that even though the series was only four sessions, there was still a sense of rapport and community established among participants and facilitators; almost all caregivers ( of 180 respondents) “agreed” or “strongly agreed” that the session provided a space for connection, community building and support. ● Ready for Kindergarten workshops collaboration: The ParentCorps team co developed and facilitated two of a five part Ready for Kindergarten workshops for caregivers in June August 2021: “Session 2: What to expect in the classroom and how to support the transition” and “Session 4: Supporting the development of emotional and social skills in young children.” These workshops were well attended and received by Sunset Park caregivers (144 in Session 2; 93 in Session 4). Phase 4: Responsive programming during the 2021 2022 school year Our programming decisions this year were based on clear feedback from the 2020 21 school year that Sunset Park teachers and leaders continue to need support in the form of virtual professional learning and coaching. Community Advisory Board: In its second year, the Community Advisory Board (CAB) expanded to include leaders from eight programs (seven pre K programs + one school without pre K), with new representation from Grand St. Settlement Sunset Park Child & Family Center and the Brooklyn Chinese American Association. These eight partner programs represented in the CAB have a total 25 pre K classrooms, approximately of the pre k classrooms in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. In addition to monthly meetings, the CAB members connect via the ParentCorps Portal (ParentCorps’ online hub) to maintain communication, and access family engagement and social emotional learning resources. Based on feedback from teachers and leaders, we also distributed eight tablets to all CAB programs to facilitate access to the ParentCorps Portal among their staff. The CAB continues to be a space to plan, implement, collaborate, connect, and support ParentCorps expansion in Sunset Park. The ParentCorps team is currently strategizing ways to engage other community voices (teacher, caregiver) to help guide program implementation. Parenting Program: Later this year, we will offer a virtual version of ParentCorps’ evidence based Parenting Program to all eight pre K partner programs in Spanish and Chinese, led by ParentCorps facilitators. We also are providing tote bags (packed with social emotional learning tools for families) to pre K families at CAB programs (25 classrooms total; approximately 500 families). 91 Professional Learning: In the remainder of the 2021/22 school year, we will offer: ● Three Professional Learning sessions to pre K teachers and leaders at Sunset Park’s 32 pre K programs (targeting a maximum of 90 classrooms serving 1800 pre K families) on Empathy for Self and Others; Anxiety in Young Children and Adults; and Culturally Responsive Education; ● Six self guided Professional Learning modules to all Sunset Park’s 32 pre K programs (Empathy to Build Relationships, Anxiety in the Classroom, Positive Reinforcement and Behavior Change, Culturally Responsive Education, Intro to Family Engagement, Family Engagement Part 2); ● ParentCorps Fundamentals (ten session Professional Learning series focused on an introduction to ParentCorps philosophy and fundamentals of family engagement and social emotional learning with a racial equity lens) to the eight ParentCorps partner programs (25 pre K classrooms serving 500 pre K families); and ● One on one coaching to four partner programs to support teachers and classrooms. Plans For this next three year phase of the Community Service Plan, we plan to support 12 pre K programs to adopt the full ParentCorps model (Professional Learning, Parenting Program, Friends School) over three years reaching 660 pre K families annually by 2025. This will involve adding four new pre K programs to our existing Community Advisory Board and core group of partner programs. Our support will include capacity building (training and coaching) for site staff to directly facilitate Parenting Program (in languages spoken by families); piloting Parenting Program in Arabic; capacity building for site staff to implement Friends School, our classroom based social emotional learning program; extending virtual community from only leaders to also teachers on the ParentCorps Portal; and continuing to provide social emotional learning and family engagement tools on the Portal. We also aim to extend our reach broadly across Sunset Park’s early childhood ecosystem by providing access to ParentCorps tools to leadership and educators of all 32 pre K programs (serving 1800 families) via the ParentCorps Portal; and partnering with Family Health Center and Community Service Plan teams contributing to a community resource list to be shared with all Sunset Park pre K programs. We will continue to offer both facilitated and self guided Professional Learning to all Sunset Park pre K programs, targeting 90 classrooms serving 1800 families. 92 =s, 500 pre K Families 3. Video Interaction Project The Video Interaction Project (VIP: www.videointeractionproject.org) is a strengths based, evidence based parenting program developed by faculty at NYU Langone and NYC H+H/Bellevue that uses videotaping and developmentally appropriate toys, books and resources to help parents utilize pretend play, shared reading, and daily routines as opportunities for strengthening early development and literacy in their children. VIP’s core mechanism for promoting positive parenting activities is to engage and empower parents during pediatric primary care visits by making a video recording of each parent and child interacting together using a toy or book provided by the program, building on each parent’s unique strengths and goals. Immediately after the recording is made, a VIP Coach watches the video with the parent to highlight and reinforce the parent’s strengths. The combination of practice during the interaction and self reflection following the interaction empowers parents to feel more confident in their role in fostering their child’s development. It also provides opportunities for parents to boost skills related to activities that will foster child development in the home. VIP sessions take place in pediatric clinics on days of routine well child visits between birth and age five years. At each session, families meet individually with their VIP Coach for approximately 25 minutes to engage in video recording described above. In addition: • The family is provided with a developmentally appropriate toy or book to take home, giving the family access to materials that facilitate rich interactions; • The VIP Coach leads a discussion about child development, suggests activities, and promotes goal setting and planning with the parent; and 93 • After about 5 10 minutes of discussion regarding parenting activities and the child’s development, the parent is videotaped playing and/or reading with the child and then given a guided review of these interactions. VIP occupies a very distinct and critically important niche in the context of broad policies to address disparities. Specifically, VIP addresses the following gaps and key needs: 1) Supporting parents and children early, beginning at birth, for strongest impacts (“primary prevention”); 2) Engaging all poor and low income households through pediatric primary care visits; and 3) Providing families with the confidence and skill to engage in behaviors supporting child development. In addition, VIP brings together three separate disciplines pediatrics, developmental psychology, and early childhood education and has been refined and tested in the context of multiple randomized controlled trials in NYC, Pittsburgh, and Flint, Michigan. As a result, VIP has among the strongest evidence bases for any program presently seeking to address poverty related disparities in school readiness. In addition to the proven impact (see below for details), this program is extremely cost effective. Implementation in healthcare builds on existing infrastructure and allows costs to remain low, estimated at $250 300 per child per year when delivered at scale. This is significantly lower than many other programs (for example, VIP is 1/10 the cost of home visiting), which is particularly impressive given the strength of the impacts of VIP. Centralized support for all sites is provided by the VIP Center of Excellence (VIP COE), based at NYU Langone’s Department of Pediatrics at NYU Grossman School of Medicine, and includes support for program implementation, training, supervision, and maintenance of fidelity. In addition, the VIP COE works centrally to continuously study and optimize VIP, and adapt to the needs of new sites and populations. The VIP COE has developed a comprehensive implementation package so that VIP can be delivered anywhere with quality and fidelity, and VIP has been implemented at 12 locations nationally as of 2021. The VIP COE is poised for the next stage of expansion with a 5 year plan for expanding to 50 100 sites in order to be able to reach 30,000 40,000 children per year. What are the benefits of VIP? As shown in multiple analyses published in prominent peer reviewed scientific journals and presented at high profile academic and policy conferences, VIP results in large impacts in three areas that are critical to reducing poverty related disparities: 1) Enhanced parent child relationships, including higher quantity and quality of parent child interactions; increased reading aloud, talking, and teaching; increased quality 94 and quality of parent child interactions; increased reading aloud, talking, and teaching; increased quality of play; reduced screen time; and reduced physical punishment), 2) Reduced family stressors, including reduced maternal depression, reduced parenting stress, and enhanced parent self efficacy, and 3) Enhanced child development, strongest in the area of social emotional development including sustained reductions in behavior problems like hyperactivity and aggression together with improved attention, all critical for learning in school; additional impacts include some improvements in cognitive and language development and reduced need for Early Intervention referral. Note about COVID 19: The COVID 19 pandemic has been a catastrophe for families with very young children, even though children have been relatively spared from the disease itself. Parents and caregivers of infants and toddlers were required to shelter in place at home; preschools, childcare centers, playgrounds, and in person support groups were closed or restricted; and many other vital services were cut or rendered inaccessible. As a model, VIP has the potential to protect children against long term impacts on mental health and school achievement by helping parents cope with the stressors of this crisis and even maintain some possibility of normalcy in their relationships and activities with their children. In response to the COVID 19 pandemic, VIP developed a virtual delivery model (‘Virtual VIP’, or VVIP) for remote delivery of VIP through phones, tablets, and other devices. The VIP COE team engaged in extensive work in spring 2020 to develop, standardize, and manualize this model and to quickly pivot to VVIP across all sites to ensure continuity of services at a time when it was critically needed by families. We have continued to engage in ongoing work to refine and optimize VVIP delivery, and we anticipate that VVIP will be utilized in a significant way even after the pandemic, including for difficult to reach populations and to provide additional parenting support between in person VIP sessions at health care visits. Feedback from families indicates that participants are receptive and eager to converse with VIP Coaches. Although most of our sites have transitioned back to delivering VIP in person, we will continue to utilize a hybrid model of delivery for the foreseeable future for patients who cannot complete their session at the time of their pediatric visit or who prefer a remote session at this time. The families who have returned for in person sessions have been enthusiastic and grateful to complete a session in person again. Progress and Impact VIP was added to the Community Service Plan in September 2018, in response to community need for support for young children and parents. As a result, VIP was implemented at the Sunset Park Family Health Center Second Ave (5610 2nd Ave, Brooklyn, NY; e.g., “5610”) in March 2019, and has since 95 served 526 families at that location, with over 1,365 visits completed as of 12/31/2021. In Sunset Park, the CSP’s implementation at 5610 has taken place alongside a larger goal of expanding VIP institution wide across NYU Langone, with a priority on the Family Health Centers. Funding from the Stella and Charles Guttman Foundation in 2021 allowed expansion of VIP to the Seventh Avenue Family Clinic in October 2021, where VIP has since been delivered to 35 Chinese speaking families. In addition, funding from the Bezos Family Foundation will allow VIP to expand to additional FHC locations in 2022 and onward. In addition to program delivery in Sunset Park, VIP has been actively engaged in collaboration with other CSP and early childhood programs to develop linkages and synergies across collocated programs. For example, the VIP Coach has worked to connect patients to local library resources through the Brooklyn Public Library. In addition, the VIP COE has been working to develop and pilot formal integration of VIP into FHC’s existing infrastructure of Maternal, Infant, and Child Health programs. For example, we plan to pilot integration of VIP into the Healthy Steps program as a core component of Tier 3 services. Plans Over the next three years, the CSP will support continued delivery of VIP at 5610, with a goal of reaching 300 400 families per year at that location. The program will continue to work with practice leadership, providers and staff to align pathways and processes for referral and implementation within the practice flow, and continue to build linkages with the Sunset Park Family Health Center and community programs. Having set this stage and developed these relationships, VIP plans to engage in large scale expansion of VIP, including across multiple locations in Sunset Park. This work includes expansion of VIP to 3 4 additional locations in Sunset Park in the upcoming two years, with locations including a mixture of FHCs and community sites. In