For Administrative use only Facility NYU Long Island For Administrative use only Patient Type Account # Med.Rec# Financial Assistance Application (Attachment A) Amount of W/O $ Method of Calculation I. Patient Demographics Patient Name: (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB)Guarantor Name: (Last) (First) (Middle) (SSN NOT REQUIRED) (DOB)Address: (Street) (City) (State) (Zip code)Home Telephone: Work Telephone: Cell Telephone: II. Household Information Patient Marital Status: (Circle One) Married Single Separated Total Number in Household: Spouse & Dependent Name(s): (Attach separate sheet for additional dependents) Date of Birth Social Security Number (NOT REQUIRED) III. Current Employment Information Employee Name (Patient, Guarantor, Spouse, or Dependent): Employer Name, Address and Dates of Employment Hire Date: Hire Date: Hire Date: IV. Insurance Information (Attach separate sheets for additional Insurance information) Are you covered by or are you applying for any health insurance (Including Medicaid and NY State of Health plans)? YES NO If yes, please explain: (include insurance company name, address, telephone number, policy/group number and subscriber information) V. Other Information Is treatment the result of an accident or injury? YES NO If Yes, date of accident: Brief description of the accident: Street, City and State of accident: Will a homeowner’s or liability insurance be involved? YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION VI. Financial Statement Financial Assistance Application (Attachment B)Enter totals for Patient, Guarantor, Spouse and Dependents: (Add additional sheets as necessary) MONTHLY INCOME: AMOUNT: Gross Wages, Salaries, Tips $ Social Security $ Disability $ Unemployment $ Child Support $ Alimony/Maintenance $ Rental Income $ Property Income $ Pension $ Dividends/Interest $ Other Income (Specify): $ $ $ CERTIFICATION I certify that the above information is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I understand that fraudulent or misleading information will make me ineligible for any financial assistance. I authorize the release of any information needed to verify the information provided and for billing and collections in compliance with applicable federal and state laws. Further, I will make application for any assistance (Medicaid, Medicare, Insurance, etc.) which may be available for payment of my hospital charges, and I will take any action reasonably necessary to obtain such assistance and will assign or pay to the hospital the amount recovered for hospital charges. I understand that this application is made so that the hospital can determine my eligibility for Financial Assistance based on the established criteria on file in the hospital. In addition, I agree to provide additional information as requested in order to determine eligibility. I agree to inform NYU Langone Hospital Long Island of any change in my needs, insurance eligibility, income, property, living arrangements or address as they occur. Signature of Applicant: Date Signature of Interviewer: Date YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION NYU Langone Hospital Long Island Financial Assistance Application Enclosed: PROCESS FOR APPLYING FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE: 1. Complete the enclosed application in its entirety 2. Return the completed application within 30 days to: NYU Langone Hospital Long Island 259 First Street Mineola, NY, 11501 Attn: Financial Assistance 3. After all items are received your request will be reviewed and you will be notified in writing of your determination within 30 days IMPORTANT • This financial assistance application is for hospital charges and does not cover doctor or other professional charges. • Private room or other personal item charges are not covered by the financial assistance program • Elective services covered by insurance not accepted by NYU Langone Hospital Long Island are not covered by the Financial Assistance Program If you have any questions please do not hesitate to reach us at (516) 663 8373 Sincerely; Financial Counseling Services YOU DO NOT HAVE TO MAKE ANY PAYMENT TO THE HOSPITAL UNTIL THE HOSPITAL SENDS YOU A LETTER WITH ITS DECISION ON YOUR APPLICATION NYU Langone Hospital Long Island 131 Mineola Blvd. Suite 105, Mineola, NY 11501 T 516 663 8373 F 516 663 3121


M. ABSCESSUS:UPDATE ON MANAGEMENT Doreen J. Addrizzo Harris, MD Professor of Medicine Co Director, NYU Bronchiectasis Program Associate Director for Education and Faculty Affairs Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine DC 11/22/2019 Financial Disclosures • PI for clinical trials withInsmed/Aradigm/Novartis/Chiltern/Hill Rom (allbronchiectasis/NTM related)• Consultant (ended 9/2018) AIT Therapeutics InsmedDC 11/22/2019 Case • 59 y/o F without significant PMH• Recurrent respiratory infections over 3 years;• CXR revealed mild increase in airways disease;• CT finally performed after 3 years of coughDivision Name or Footer 3 DC 11/22/2019 CT Chest from 2016 DC 11/22/2019 Case • M. Abscessus subspecies abscessus• Recurrent courses of combination of oral antibiotics with IV therapy for weeks to months• IV tigecycline and IV amikacin with clofazimine and tedizolid for 3 months• Then on oral therapy bedaquiline, clofazimine and inhaled amikacin• And back on IV and then oral and back and forth…............... Division Name or Footer 5 DC 11/22/2019 Mycobacterium abscessus •Mycobacterium abscessus was firstidentified in a patient with a knee infectionand SQ abscesses•M. abscessus is the 2nd 3rd most commoncause of lung disease due to NTM and themost common cause of lung disease dueto a rapid grower•The organism is highly resistant toantibiotics with current in vitro methodsIsolated in 1950 from synovial fluid and buttock lesions in a 63 year old woman Moore M et al. J Invest Derm. 1953;20:133 M. abscessus groupDivision Name or Footer 7 DC 11/22/2019 Current Common Options for Treatment •Tigecycline IV•Amikacin IV•Cefoxitin IV•Imipenem IV•Moxifloxacin PO or IV•Along with oral options• Clofazamine• Oxazolidinones (??)DC 11/22/2019 In vitro Drug Susceptibility, M. abscessusDrug MIC Range MIC50 MIC90 Susceptibility Amikacin 0.125 64 4 816 90 32 1 78 82 13 6 24 Cefoxitin 16 25632 32 Ciprofloxacin 0.064 64 4 3216 32Clarithromycin 0.032 64 0.25 1 2 16Clofazimine <0.25 1 ≤0.5 1.0 Imipenem <0.5 256 4 168 128Linezolid 0.5 64 16 32 Moxifloxacin 0.064 32 2 322 32Tigecycline 0.064 24 0.5 3 2 12Park S, et al. J Korean Med Sci 2008;23:49 52 Nie W, et al. Int J Infect Dis 2014;25:170 174 Huang YC et al. J Micro, Immunol Infect 2010;43:401 406 Yoshida S, et al. Int J Infect 2013;42:226 231 DC 11/22/2019 Treatment of M. abscessus “Functional” erm41 gene No Yes M. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massilienseDC 11/22/2019 Treatment of M. abscessus “Functional” erm41 gene No Yes Macrolide? ≥2 other drugs Amikacin 2 +mos Macrolide? ≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacin M. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massilienseDC 11/22/2019InhaledAmikacin Treatment of M. abscessus (Duration 12 months culture negativity)“Functional” erm41 gene No Yes Macrolide? ≥2 other drugs Amikacin Macrolide ≥1 other drug Amikacin Imipenem (IV) Cefoxitin (IV) Tigecycline (IV) Linezolid Clofazimine Moxifloxacin Bedaquiline Avibactam/meropenem Macrolide? ≥2 other drugs InhaledAmikacin Macrolide ≥1 other drug 2+ mos 2+ mos M. abscessusM. bolletiiM. abscessusM. massiliense • DOES BEDAQUILINE WORK?• Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy forPatients With Nontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung DiseasePhilley, J, et al CHEST 2015; 148(2):499 506.• Bedaquiline is an oral antimycobacterial agent belonging to thediarlylquinolines class• It appears to be effective for the treatment of MDRTB but has not beentested for NTM diseaseDC 11/22/2019 • Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients WithNontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST2015; 148(2):499 506• A case series of off label use of bedaquiline caused by MAC or Mab.• 10 patients were reviewed ( 6 MAC, 4 Mab)• Patients had refractory disease and were treated for 1 8 years prior tostarting bedaquiline• had macrolide resistant isolates• Dose was 400mg daily with food for 2 weeks followed by 200mg TIW.• All patients completed 6 months of therapy with bedaquiline andremain on therapy.DC 11/22/2019 • Preliminary Results of Bedaquiline as Salvage Therapy for Patients WithNontuberculous Mycobacterial Lung Disease Philley, J, et al CHEST 2015;148(2):499 506• After 6 months of therapy, ( 6/10) had a microbiologic response with (5/10) having one or more negative cultures.• Side effects Nausea () Arthralgias () Anorexia and subjective fever ()• No abnormal ECG changes were observed.• A small preliminary study that highlights the potential clinical andmicrobiologic activity of bedaquiline in patients with advance MAC/Mab.DC 11/22/2019 Emerging Pharmacologic Therapies Bedaquiline • A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination regimen might add activityto the treatment of clinically relevant non tuberculousmycobacteriaRuth M, J Antimicrob Chemother 2019; Ijakko van Ingen• In TK assays, bedaquiline showed a bacteriostatic effect. Clofazimineextended the bacteriostatic activity of bedaquiline against MAB andyielded a slight bactericidal effect against M. avium.• A bedaquiline/clofazimine combination might add activity to MAB andMAC treatment. The bedaquiline/clarithromycin combination might havelower activity compared with bedaquiline alone for MAC treatment.DC 11/22/2019 A New Approach Avibactam with Carbapenems?? • Combination of avibactam and carbapenems exhibit enhanced potenciesagainst drug resistant Mycobacterium abscessus. Kaushik, A et al Future Microbiol 2017 28 resistant isolates of M abscessus• Avibactam was able to restore the MICs of tebipenem, ertapenem, andpanipenem against M abscessus to therapeutically achievableconcentrations17 Division Name or Footer DC 11/22/2019 18 Division Name or Footer DC 11/22/2019 Emerging Pharmacologic Therapies tetracycline anaologs Bax H, et al. J Antimicrob Chemother 2019 (Netherlands) Kaushi, A, et al Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy 2019 (Hopkins) • New Tetracycline Analogs• Omadacycline (oral) / Eravacycline (IV)• In vitro data against drug resistant M. Abscessus• Promising alternative to IV Tigecycline• Favorable MICs• Lower toxicityDC 11/22/2019 Surgery • Indications for surgery: medication unresponsive (drug resistant; large cavities);hemoptysis; uncontrolled symptoms; ? Debulking of disease• Safety Mitchell, J Ann Thorac Surg 2008; Eur Journ CV surg 2011• Microbiologic efficacy Griffith AJRCCM 2006; Nelson Ann Thor Surg 1998; GriffithAJRCCM 1993 M abscessus disease treatment success• Jeon 2009 (med) vs (med + surg)• Jarand 2011 (med) vs (med +surg)21 Division Name or Footer DC 11/22/2019 Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine THANK YOU! Section Chiefs Meeting October 23, 2017 DC 11/22/2019


NYU FACULTY GROUP PRACTICE PRIVATE CONTRACT WITH MEDICAID BENEFICIARY This agreement is between Dr. (“Physician”) and patient (“Patient”), with date of birth who is Medicaid beneficiary seeking services as a private pay patient, although the services are covered under Medicaid, including Medicaid Managed Care Plans. By signing this Agreement Patient understands and agrees that Patient will be treated on a private pay basis and no Medicaid claim will be filed. Physician agrees to provide the following medical Services to Patient: Condition of to include initial and all follow up visits for this episode of care. Pre Op Consultation Date of Service: Surgery/Post op (Type:_ ) Date of Service: Other (Specify: ) Date of Service: In exchange for the Services, the Patient agrees to make payments to Physician pursuant to the Physician’s fee schedule. The approximate cost for the service above is ; this may vary, however, depending on the actual services required at the time of service. Patient also agrees, understands and expressly acknowledges the following (please initial each item): Patient agrees not to submit a claim (or to request that Physician submit a claim) to the Medicaid program with respect to the Services, even if covered by Medicaid. Patient is not currently in an emergency or urgent health care situation. Patient acknowledges that neither Medicaid’s fee limitations nor any other Medicaid reimbursement regulations apply to charges for the Services. Patient acknowledges that he or she has a right, as a Medicaid beneficiary, to obtain Medicaid covered items and services from physicians and practitioners who participate with Medicaid, and that the patient is not compelled to enter into private contracts that apply to other Medicaid covered services furnished by other physicians or practitioners who participate with Medicaid. Patient agrees to be responsible to make payment in full for the Services and acknowledges that Physician will not submit a Medicaid claim for the Services and that no Medicaid reimbursement will be provided. Patient understands that Medicaid payment will not be made for any items or services furnished by the physician that would have otherwise been covered by Medicaid if there was no private contract and a proper Medicaid claim was submitted. Patient acknowledges that a copy of this contract has been made available to him or her. Patient agrees to reimburse Physician for any costs and reasonable attorney fees that result from violation of this Agreement by Patient or his beneficiaries. Executed on by: (Date) (Patient name) (FGP Physician) (Patient Signature) (FGP Representative Signature) Revised 11/23/15


NYU FACULTY GROUP PRACTICE PRIVATE CONTRACT WITH MEDICARE BENEFICIARY This agreement is between Dr. (“Physician”), whose principal place of business is , and patient _(“Patient”), who resides at and is a Medicare Part B beneficiary seeking Services covered under Medicare Part B pursuant to Section 4507 of the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. Physician has informed Patient that Physician has opted out of the Medicare program effective on _/ _/ for a period of at least two years and is not excluded from participating in Medicare Part B under Sections 1128, 1156, 1892 or any other section of the Social Security Act. Physician agrees to provide the following medical Services to Patient (the “Services”): Evaluation & Management, Consultation and Professional Component Services. In exchange for the Services, the Patient agrees to make payments to Physician pursuant to the Physician’s Fee. Estimates are available upon request. Patient also agrees, understands and expressly acknowledges the following:  Patient agrees not to submit a claim (or to request that Physician submit a claim) to the Medicare program with respect to the Services, even if covered by Medicare Part B.  Patient is not currently in an emergency or urgent health care situation  Patient acknowledges that neither Medicare’s fee limitations nor any other Medicare reimbursement regulations apply to charges for the Services.  Patient acknowledges that MediGap plans will not provide payment or reimbursement for the Services because payment is not made under the Medicare program, and other supplemental insurance plans may likewise deny reimbursement.  Patient acknowledges that he or she has a right, as a Medicare beneficiary, to obtain Medicare covered items and services from physicians and practitioners who have not opted out of Medicare, and that the patient is not compelled to enter into private contracts that apply to other Medicare covered services furnished by other physicians or practitioners who have not opted out.  Patient agrees to be responsible to make payment in full for the Services and acknowledges that Physician will not submit a Medicare claim for the Services and that no Medicare reimbursement will be provided.  Patient understands that Medicare payment will not be made for any items or services furnished by the physician that would have otherwise been covered by Medicare if there was no private contract and a proper Medicare claim was submitted.  Patient acknowledges that a copy of this contract has been made available to him or her.  Patient agrees to reimburse Physician for any costs and reasonable attorney fees that result from violation of this Agreement by Patient or his beneficiaries. Executed on [date] by: _ (Patient/Guarantor name) (Physician name) _ (Patient/Guarantor Signature) (Physician Signature) Revised 3/18/15


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 12/2/2024 Minimum Necessary Standard for Uses and Disclosures of PHI Policy Whenever NYU Langone Health Uses or Discloses Protected Health Information (“PHI”), reasonable efforts will be made to limit the amount of PHI to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose of the Use or Disclosure (i.e., the minimum necessary standard). The minimum necessary is defined depending on the intended purpose of the Use or Disclosure. Workforce Members should only request the minimum necessary when requesting PHI from another entity (except as otherwise provided as an exception below). • A patient’s entire medical record will only be provided if the entire medical record can be specifically justified (or as otherwise provided as an exception below) as the minimum amount necessary under the particular circumstance. • Information that exceeds the minimum necessary will not be included and/or redacted prior to release. Special attention will be given to information relating to alcohol or drug abuse, genetic testing, psychiatric care, Confidential HIV Related Information, and Reproductive Health Information. Exceptions to the Minimum Necessary Standard The following are not limited by the minimum necessary standard: • Uses and Disclosures of PHI for treatment purposes, • Disclosures to the subject of the information (i.e., the patient), • Uses or Disclosures pursuant to a patient’s Authorization and consistent with such Authorization, and • Disclosures as required by law, including to the Department of Health and Human Services for purposes of HIPAA compliance. For disclosures made on a routine and recurring basis, NYU Langone Health will limit Workforce Members’ access to PHI to the minimum necessary through appropriate safeguards, including but not limited to: • restricting user access to systems that contain PHI based on job function and duties (e.g., access to the electronic medical record); • providing only the minimum necessary access level consistent with those duties; and • in accordance with Medical Center Information Technology (“MCIT”) Security policies and procedures. Page 2 of 2 For all other Disclosures, NYU Langone Health will limit the amount of PHI Disclosed to the minimum necessary to accomplish the intended purpose of the Use or Disclosure. A review of non routine Disclosures should take into consideration reasonable criteria to limit the released data to the minimum necessary. For example: • the purpose and importance, • who is requesting the information, • the extent of additional persons with access to the PHI, and • other factors and information specific to each request. Responding to Requests for Disclosures Workforce Members may rely on a requested Disclosure as the minimum necessary for the stated purpose (if reliance is reasonable under the circumstances) in the following situations: • when the Disclosure is to a public official and the requestor represents that the information requested is the minimum necessary for the stated purpose, • when the information is requested by another covered entity, • when the information is requested by a Workforce Member or a Business Associate for the purpose of providing professional services to NYU Langone Health, if the requestor represents that the information requested is the minimum necessary, and • when the information is requested for Research purposes and the requestor has provided documentation or representations that comply with the Use and Disclosure of PHI for Research policy and any applicable IRB policies and protocols. Violations of the minimum necessary standard are subject to breach notification requirements. Related Documents All HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Medical Center Information Technology Security Policies Medical Center Information Technology Workforce Members IT Policy Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.502(b) 45 C.F.R. §164.514(d) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


Page 1 of 2 Issuing Department: Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management Effective/Reissue Date: 10/5/2016 Current Version: 4/1/2024 Mitigation of HIPAA Related Incidents Policy When NYU Langone Health knows of any harmful effect resulting from the Use or Disclosure of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) in violation of law or institutional policies and procedures by NYU Langone Health or a Business Associate, all necessary steps, to the extent practicable, will be taken to mitigate such harmful effects. NYU Langone Health will not participate in, condone, or willfully ignore any violations of law or NYU Langone Health policies. Workforce Members who become aware of a Use or Disclosure of PHI that is not in compliance with the HIPAA Rules or NYU Langone Health policies should take reasonable steps to reduce any potential harm. Workforce Members must immediately contact the Office of Internal Audit, Compliance, and Enterprise Risk Management (“IACERM”) so that any additional steps to mitigate the harm can be taken. IACERM, under the guidance of the Privacy Officer, will formulate and act upon a mitigation response plan tailored to the circumstances of the case but may include as appropriate: • identifying the source(s) of the Disclosure, • contacting the recipient of the information and requesting that the information be returned or destroyed, • instructing the recipient to make no further Disclosure of the information, • notifying the affected individual as required and in compliance with law and NYU Langone Health policies, and • taking corrective action, including reeducation, reviewing, and correcting policies or procedures that contributed to the unauthorized Disclosure. With respect to an unauthorized Disclosure made or caused by a Business Associate, IACERM and the Privacy Officer, in consultation with the Office of General Counsel will make a determination if such Disclosure warrants termination of the Business Associate’s contract. Related Documents Accounting for Disclosures of PHI Breach Notification Compliance Concerns: Reporting, Investigating, and Protection from Retaliation Compliance Concerns: What You Need to Know About Reporting & the Investigation Process HIPAA Privacy Policies, Procedures, and Documentation HIPAA Privacy Policies and Procedures Definitions Page 2 of 2 Safeguarding PHI Legal Reference 45 C.F.R. §164.530(f) This version supersedes all NYU Langone Health (as defined in this Policy) previous policies, including but not limited to NYU Hospitals Center, New York University School of Medicine, Lutheran Medical Center, and Winthrop University Hospital.


For additional copies of this brochure or the MOLST form, please contact CompassionAndSupport.org.At NYU Langone Health, for any questions regarding MOLST and Advance Care Planning, you can contact the Advance Care Planning Program at: 212 263 0416 or you can email: Christine Wilkins at christine.wilkins@nyulangone.orgAs part of the Community wide End of life/Palliative Care Initiative, we are pleased to produce this brochure. NYULH 2020New York State ResidentsCommon Terms:Artificially administered fluids andnutrition (also referred to as artificialhydration and nutrition): When aperson can no longer eat or drink, liquid food or fluids can be given by atube inserted in the stomach, or fluidscan be given by a plastic tube(catheter) inserted directly into thevein. If a patient chooses not to haveeither a feeding tube or IV fluids,food and fluids are offered as tolerated using careful hand feeding.Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR):CPR involves artificial breathing andforceful pressure on the chest to tryto restart the heart. It usually involveselectric shock (defibrillation) and aplastic tube down the throat into the windpipe to assist breathing (intubation). It means that all medicaltreatments will be done to prolonglife when the heart stops or breathingstops, including being placed on abreathing machine and being transferred to the hospital. Comfort measures: Medical care andtreatment provided with the primarygoal of relieving pain and othersymptoms and reducing suffering.Intubation and mechanical ventilation: If a person is unable tobreathe, a tube is placed down thethroat and connected to a machinethat pumps air into and out of the lungs.MOLSTMedical Orders for Life Sustaining TreatmentWhat is the MOLST form?MOLST (Medical Orders for Life Sustaining Treatment) is a medicalorder form approved by the NewYork State Department of Health.MOLST tells others your wishes forlife sustaining treatment. The formis on bright pink paper so it can beeasily identified in case of an emer gency. You use MOLST when youhave a serious health condition. Who should have a MOLST?You should ask your doctor if the MOLST is right for you. You should consider it if you:I Reside in a long term care facility.I Reside in the community andneed long term care services.I Might die within the next year.I Want to avoid or receive some orall life sustaining treatment.Examples of Life SustainingTreatment:I Cardiopulmonary resuscitation(CPR)I Intubation and mechanical ventilationI Future hospitalizationI Feeding tubesI AntibioticsWho keeps my MOLST?You keep the original MOLST formas you travel to different care settings. At home, keep the MOLSTform on the refrigerator door, bythe phone in the kitchen or by yourbedside. A copy of the MOLST formshould be kept by your doctors in allsettings at which you receive care. How is MOLST different than a Health Care Proxy orLiving Will?MOLSTI For those who have a serioushealth condition or are nearingthe end of lifeI Applies right nowI If you lose your ability to makedecisions, the form is valid and usedI Contains medical orders thatreflect your wishes about life sustaining treatmentHealth Care Proxy or Living WillI For all adultsI Completed ahead of timeI Applies only when you cannotspeak for yourselfHow is MOLST completed?1.A health care professional must complete orchange the MOLST form, based on thepatient's current medical condition, values,wishes and MOLST instructions.2.A physician must sign the MOLST form. 3.You can make decisions on the MOLST if youhave the ability to decide. If you do not havethe ability to decide and have a health careproxy, your health care agent makes the decision. If there is no health care proxy,another person can decide, chosen from a listbased on New York State Public Health Law.


New York Blood CenterP ysicians Order formNY Blood Collections rel, NY FRM 0207, Rev: 03 Effective: 05 Jun 2018SCAN COMPLETED ORDERS TO SpecialCollectionsStaff@NYBloodcenter.or Instruction for Autologous Donation:1. Complete the reverse side of this form for your patient.2. Check that all of the information in the Patient Information section is complete and accurate.3. Patient ID# may be the last four digits of the patient s social security number, passport number (if patient does not have asocial security number) or hospital medical record number.4. Patients with cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, or hematolo ic medical conditions must have medical clearance to enabletheir donation; the ultimate responsibility for safety of donation lies with the ordering physician.5. Fax or mail the completed form to the New York Blood Center (NYBC). The patient must call NYBC to set up a patient fileand donation appointment. See below for addresses and telephone numbers.6. For all donations: official identification with signature, proof of age and/or photo is required.7. Autolo ous donors are eligible to donate if their hemoglobin is >ll .Instruction for Directed Donation: Directed donors are blood donors chosen by the patient.1. Check that all of the information in the Patient Information section is complete and accurate.2. Fax or mail the completed form to the NYBC. Call the NYBC to set up a donation appointment. See below for addressesand telephone numbers.3. Patients who will receive blood from directed donors must be assigned surgery patient numbers by the NYBC SpecialCoordinator. Directed donors use the surgery patient number when they call the NYBC to set up a donation appointment.Directed donors will not be scheduled unless they present the surgery patient number. NYBC will not release this patientnumber to the directed donor(s). Only the patient or his/her representative initiating the directed donation process will havethe patient number.4. For all donations: official identification with signature, proof of age and/or photo is required.5. Directed donors are eligible to donate if their hemoglobin is >12.5 m for females, and >13gm for males, like all otherallogeneic volunteer blood donors.Directed Donor Qualifications:1. Directed blood donors must meet eligibility guidelines set for volunteer blood donors.2. Donors must be between 17 and 76 years of age (16 year olds may donate with parental/guardian consent), weigh at least 110pounds, be in general good health and meet established health history standards.3. It is not recommended that a husband donate for his wife, if she is of childbearing age, as this may affect future pregnancies.Compatible Blood: The directed donor s blood must be compatible with the patient receiving the transflision.Directed Donor Confidentiality:If a directed donor blood donation product cannot be released, the recipient’s physician will be notified of its unavailability.The physician will not be told the reason why it is not available. Donors will be notified only after confirmatory tests arecompleted in approximately 3 4 weeks. If the patient becomes ill from the transfusion, confidentiality of the directed donormay be compromised.Surcharges:There are surcharges for the multiple seiwices needed to complete the donation. Donors are responsible for paying these surcharges.We will document our services to enable possible reimbursement from third party payers (i.e. insurance carriers) who may or may notreimburse these surcharges.Sureharges may be refundable if the blood does not reach the hospital at the intended time (due to unforeseen circumstances) only ifthe donor donates within 5 business days (for Autologous Donations) or 7 business days (for Directed Donations) of the intendedprocedure for which the blood is needed.Please clarify with our staff whether you will be eligible for a refund in specific circumstances.Shippin Information:Collection, processing, testing and shipping of blood requires a minimum of 5 business days for Autologous, and 7 business days forDirected blood for delivery to local hospitals and a minimum of 10 business days for out of state hospitals. We do not guaranteedelivery if there are problems encountered with donor eligibility, results of laboratory testing, or private shippers needed for out ofregion deliveries. All blood delivered to the hospital or medical facility becomes the exclusive property of that hospital or medicalfacility. They have the unlimited right to use or dispose of the blood at their discretion.Please send completed SIGNED form before the first blood donation ap ointment to:New York Blood CenterSpecial Collections Department1200 Prospect AvenueWestburyNY 11590 2723PHONE: 800 439 6876 FAX: 516 334 4936MSPage 2 of 2NY FRM 0207New York Blood CenterPhysicians Order formNY Blood Collections rel, NY FRM 0207, Rev: 03 Effecti e: 05 Jun 2018PHYSICIAN S ORDER FORMAutologous & Directed DonationsPatient Information All Information Must Match Hospital RecordsName: LA T FIR T MIBirth Date ID# Gender: Male |~l Female I IAddressCity State Zip Code Phone # D YTIME EVENING Hospital Information Do Not AbbreviateScheduled Date of Surgery Patient s Blood Type Surgical Procedure/Diagnosis Facility Name City/State/Zip Orderin Physici n Inform tionName:Phone #LASTFax#EmailFIRSTPhysician’s Signature:Date:AddressCityStateZipDirected Units Requested:{Please Write Number of Each Product Requested)Red Blood CellsPlateletsPlasmaI I Other Product Requests (pleasespecify) NOTE: All directed units will be irradiated unless otherwiserequested by the hospital.Physician s Preassessment for Autologous Donors Only;Medical Clearance: Please complete the following information regarding the patient’s medical status and provideall medical conditions and medications (list can be continued on an additional sheet).Past or Present Medical Conditions: Medication:Autolo ous Units Requested:Please Write Number of Each Product Requested)Red blood cellsPlateletsPlasmaOther (please specify) By signing below, you confirm that your patient does not have any significant cardio or cerebrovascular, pulmonary orother disease that would serve as medically contraindicated to donation.Physician’s Si n ture: Date: NYBC Approval: (STAMPED SIGNA TURES WILL NOT BE A CCEPTED) (Initial & Date)FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE CALL (800) 439 6876 FAX COMPLETED ORDERS TO (516) 334 4936MSPage 1 of 2NY FRM 0207