Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Face based Time & Attendance Software for Construction Companies Centralized and foolproof attendance solution to track labor across multiple construction sites Get Truein to plug revenue leakages. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Remote Sites Attendance Instant setup with Face recognition and Mobile geofencing No Buddy Punching AI-powered robust solution for accurate attendance capturing Payroll-Ready Reports & Analytics Real-time view of all sites. Multiple reports and Analytics Increase Workforce Productivity 70+ Attendance policies, smart features, and Payroll-ready reports Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Powerful yet easy-to-use features to streamline your frequently changing construction staff time & attendance Instant and Anywhere Onboarding Let contract workers onboard on-sites with a single selfie. Shift Scheduling Plan in advance or automatically allocate shifts like general, day or night in bulk for the entire organization or individually for each staff. Know More. GPS Time Tracking for Multi-Sites Truein's Construction GPS Time Clock optimizes time & attendance tracking for construction sites. With Geofencing staffcan clocks in only from the assigned locations, ensuring on-site presence. Meanwhile, supervisors attain real-time visibility of workers across multiple sites. No Hardware You don’t need complicated hardware or HCM solutions to solve your Time and Attendance problems. Configure Truein's app on any Mobile or Tablet, and you are good to go. Efficient Job Tracking software for Construction Explore Truein's powerful construction job tracking software to effortlessly track time across jobs, projects, shifts, providing a clear picture of hours logged. Gain real-time insights and make informed decisions More Practical Features Multiple reports with OT calculations Admin or supervisor view Offline mode Time off (Leave) Management Integration with HRMS/Payroll Blacklist or auto-deactivate Govt ID capture Job mapping Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Attendance System Case Study How we eliminated buddy punching & traceability issues at SJ Contracts​ 22 Sites 6000+ Staff SJ Contracts provide construction services that add value to industrial, commercial, and residential projects. Apart from their office staff, they deal with a lot of unorganized sector labor. SJ contracts were using a swipe card system along with paper-pen manual syncs for attendance. For a long time, they faced the problem of proxy attendance. Also, their attendance system did not provide real-time reports and lacked centralized controls. Another significant problem was the manual onboarding of new workers daily. With Truein, they moved to a face recognition-based attendance system, which solved the problem of proxy attendance. Truein provided access to real-time reports and had centralized controls. In addition, the self-onboarding feature for new staff made the registration process fast Read more We are using Truein at our 22 sites for over 6000 staff. Truein has built-in customization options and gives multiple real-time reports. And it's a very user friendly product! Girish Nimbalkar AGM, HR SJ Contracts Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs How To Manage Overtime In The Construction Industry? Labor Shortage: What It Is, Why There Is A Shortage & How To Overcome It? Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Construction Cost Management – Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Face Recognition based Time & Attendance Software for Facility Management Companies Centralized time & attendance solution for your ever-changing staff at multiple client sites Get Truein to optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakages Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Instant and Anywhere Runs on Mobile/Tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the admin or facility manager. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per location or staff categories. Automated Shift rostering, Weekly off, Overtime, Holidays, Late marks, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Facility Management Companies Truein helped Veejay Facility Management to standardize their Time & Attendance processes across multiple client locations and brought transparency across multiple levels. 30 Sites 500+ Staff Veejay Facility provides a wide range of facility management services, including housekeeping, building management, labor contracting, and staffing solutions pan India. For a distributed workforce like that of Veejay’s, Truein served as an ideal hardware-less face recognition based Time and Attendance solution. Veejay Facility achieved customizable yet standard time and attendance processes, fixed its reconciliation issues, and won its customer’s trust. Read more A well-designed and easy-to-use app with relevant information organized in an easily understandable way. An excellent app backed by a competent and responsive team. Chirag Faterpekar Sr. Hr. Manager Veejay Facility Management Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Powerful yet easy-to-use features to streamline the time & attendance of your frequently changing Contract and Distributed workforce Geofenced Clock In at Customer sites Staff can clock in at dedicated kiosks or using their mobile. Geofencing technology allows clock in only at approved locations. Auto-Deactivate Inactive Staff Policy to auto deactivate staff if absent for a certain number of days. Perfect for companies where staff keep changing frequently or remain absent for long. Shift and Weekly Off Rostering Automatically allocate the roster (Shifts, Half-day, Weekly offs, Public holidays) bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changing number of staff in each shift. Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Frequently Asked Questions Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? Yes, it is possible. You can assign the shifts individually for each staff member. There is also an option to bulk upload shifts and weekly offs. Can we geofence our multiple customer sites? Yes, you can geofence your customer sites. You can also set up geofencing in multiple locations individually for each staff member (One by one) or in bulk (bulk assign). Can we transfer our staff from one location or site to another? Yes, it can be done. After a staff member is transferred, you need to reassign their manager and set access to the sites that the staff is permitted. Is Truein suitable for our use case/staff? Truein is a complete attendance solution for your contract and distributed staff. Our solution is suited for facility management companies, providing staff for security, operations, malls, offices, hospitals, restaurants, building maintenance, etc. What type of policies can I create with Truein? Truein offers 70+ customizable policies. This includes attendance policies, break-time policies, overtime policies, regulatory and time-tracking policies, and weekly off and holiday policies. We source our staff from multiple contractors. Does Truein offer any feature specific to this? Truein offers solutions to manage onboarding documentation, policies, and more on the contractor level. In addition, you can give required access to your contractor managers. Are there any other features specific to facility management that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing instant and anywhere onboarding, multi-site setup, customizable policies, and payroll-ready reports, also offers the following features: Leave Management Admin or Supervisor View No Proxy Punch Offline Mode with Auto Sync Reports and Analytics Multiple In-Out What onboarding features does Truein offer? The contract workers or staff can onboard themselves with a single selfie, which is a huge relief, especially when workers change dail y. As Truein is app-based and runs on mobile/tablet devices, onboarding can be instantly done at any customer site. Truein can also capture information from Government identity cards, making collecting information about a new worker or staff safer, simpler, and faster. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Mobile Attendance App with Face Recognition Centralized and robust attendance app to monitor the time and attendance of your distributed, on-field, and on-premise staff Book a free Demo Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Clock in from Anywhere, Any Device Truein runs on Android or iOS-based devices. The staff can clock in using their mobile or through a kiosk. Eliminates the need for complicated hardware or standalone attendance machines. Best for field or roaming staff, retail stores, construction sites, facility management companies, manufacturing companies, and more. Sign up for a Demo Clock In/Out at Multiple Locations Does your staff require to work across multiple locations? Truein automatically tracks where they are. Geofencing ensures the staff clocks in only at specific locations and prevents them from clocking in when they are out of range. Centralized dashboard offers a real-time view of the multiple clock-ins. Try it for free No Internet? Truein Tracks Time Offline Too Staff can clock in and out with or without the internet, and you can continue tracking their attendance. Face recognition and GPS tracking also work without the net. No more buddy punching or time theft, even in offline mode. Truein automatically syncs data once the internet is back. Request a Demo Selfie Attendance with Facial Recognition Truein's AI-powered facial recognition feature offers practically 100% accurate clockin. The feature works with face masks or changes in facial attributes like a beard, a new hairstyle, or even with spectacles. Check Pricing Detailed Reports and Analytics Detailed reports and analytics make managing payroll easy. Error-free final payroll-ready reports eliminate the need for reconciliation and the creation of manual reports. Get daily, and monthly reports directly from the app in a format of your choice. Enquire Now! Centralized Controls Centralized view enables tracking of your distributed, on-field, and on-premise staff. Know who is in or out in real-time. Get a real-time view of attendance status and history, download reports, manage staff directories, and more from the mobile app. Talk to Us! Secure Cloud Storage Enterprise-grade cloud infrastructure with stringent security and privacy protocols ensures the security of your data. Our resilient architecture and processes have practically full up-time. Get in Touch Staff Self-Service on the App The mobile app enables your staff to regularize their attendance, view attendance history, apply for leaves, check their leave status, view their shifts, and more. Take a Demo That's not all! Truein offers much more! Time off (Leave) Management Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with payroll Shift scheduling Job mapping Kiosk mode (Touchless) Blacklist, deactivate Staff Web dashboard Attendancereminders Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Truein for companies with Contract and Distributed workforce Construction Manufacturing Supply Chain, Logistics Facility Management Retail Chain Manpower Staffing Agencies Other Contract Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Frequently Asked Questions How many employees can be registered on Truein’s mobile-based attendance system? You can register an unlimited number of employees on Truein's mobile-based attendance system. Their system is designed to scale with your business, so you don't need to worry about outgrowing it as your team expands. Can the software integrate seamlessly with our existing HR or payroll software? Absolutely, Truein can easily be integrated with any 3rd party or In-house software via the API. We have already integrated with QuickBooks, Sage, Xero, ADP, and Other major HRMS/Payroll software. Can the attendance software support geographically dispersed teams or remote workers? Yes, Truein is designed to handle your staff spread across locations. It provides a real-time view of attendance status, allows you to view attendance history, manage staff directories, download reports, and more from a centralized web dashboard and mobile app How does your mobile-based attendance system address issues such as employee privacy and consent? Truein provides organizations the option to obtain consent for GPS-based attendance and face recognition authentication. Additionally, Truein offers a feature where face records are not stored in the database and are solely used for recognition, prioritizing user privacy. What analytics and reporting capabilities does your mobile-based attendance system offer? You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein provides various report formats, and customization options to align with your organization's specific needs. Can Truein accommodate different types of employee schedules, such as flexible or shift-based work arrangements? Yes, Truein is designed to accommodate different types of employee schedules, including flexible or shift-based work arrangements. It provides flexibility to adapt to various work schedules, ensuring accurate tracking of attendance regardless of the type of work arrangement your organization follow. Can I get real-time notifications or alerts for attendance-related issues, such as late arrivals or unauthorized absences? Yes, Truein allows you to receive real-time notifications and alerts for attendance-related issues, such as late arrivals or unauthorized absences. You can set up customized alerts to stay informed about any deviations. How does your mobile-based attendance system handle offline attendance marking in areas with poor connectivity or limited internet access? Truein is designed to handle offline attendance marking in areas with poor connectivity. Truein allows staff to clock In/Out even without the internet. Both face recognition and GPS geofencing functionalities work offline as well. Truein automatically syncs the data once the internet connection is restored, ensuring accurate and up-to-date attendance records. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form