Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Job Title: Flutter Developer Location: Baner, Pune About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. Responsibilities: Experience building and deploying high-scale production mobile apps in Flutter. Translating UI/UX designs into code. Leverage a strong command of Firebase. Advanced debugging/testing/optimization skills. Knowledge of Location Services, Maps, and other common Android/IOS libraries. Analyze and maintain existing software applications. Design highly scalable, testable code. Discover and fix programming bugs. Requirements: Bachelor's degree or equivalent experience in Computer Science or related field. Experience: 2 to 4 years. Experience working with remote data via REST and JSON. Experience with third-party libraries and APIs. Solid understanding of the full mobile development life cycle. Preferred : Additional experience in Android development. You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits. Work closely with founders and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. Challenge yourself and take your career to the next level. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Job Title: UI/UX & Graphic Designer Location: Baner, Pune About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. Responsibilities: Take ownership of all branding, design, and presentation aspects of Truein and our software product. Collaborate with marketing, software development, and management teams to define, design, and implement innovative solutions. Create graphical assets to assist other business & marketing areas. Conduct user research to understand user needs, pain points, and behaviors. Develop user personas and user journey maps to inform design decisions. Create wireframes, prototypes, and mockups to visualize design concepts. Design user interfaces (UI) for websites, mobile apps, and other digital products, incorporating: User-friendly navigation systems Engaging layouts and information hierarchy Visually appealing iconography and illustrations (if applicable) Consistent branding elements (color palettes, typography, etc.) Ensure UI elements are consistent with brand guidelines and design principles. Collaborate with front-end developers to ensure designs are feasible for implementation. Conduct usability testing and iterate on designs based on user feedback. Stay up-to-date on the latest UI/UX design trends and best practices. Requirements: 1-3 years of proven work experience as a UI/UX and Graphic designer or similar role preferably in B2B SaaS or technology domain. A portfolio of strong UI/UX experience designing and creating interfaces for complex interactive products for both web and mobile platforms. Proven ability to design user-centered experiences that are both functional and aesthetically pleasing. Strong understanding of UI/UX design principles, including information architecture, interaction design, and visual design. Proficiency in design software such as Figma, Sketch, Adobe XD, and graphic design software like Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator. Excellent communication, collaboration, and problem-solving skills. A passion for creating innovative and user-friendly product experiences. Bachelors / Masters degree in Graphic Design, Interactive Design, Marketing, Industrial Design, or relevant field. Good to have: Has worked at growth stage startup Front-end coding knowledge (HTML, CSS & JavaScript) is a big plus. Education background in Computer Engineering You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits. Work closely with founders and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Job Title: QA Engineer Location: Baner, Pune About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. Responsibilities: Create detailed, comprehensive and well-structured test plans and test cases for web and mobile applications. Execute test cases as per Test plans. Design, write & execute functional and regression tests. Evaluate, troubleshoot and test software. Ensure delivery of extremely high quality products to end customers. Adopt and adhere to QA processes. Run non-functional tests using automated tools. Requirements: 1 to 3 years of work experience as a Quality assurance engineer. Hands-on experience in Web, Mobile & API testing. Experience using API management tools like Postman. Exceptional analytical skills. Experience with performance and/or security testing is a plus. Prior experience working in a product based startup would be preferred. BE/BTech Computers, MSc/MCA or similar. You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits. Work closely with founders and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. Challenge yourself and take your career to the next level. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Job Title: Backend Developer Location: Baner, Pune About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. o 40% off Lite Plan Up to 90 users up to 100 users Key Features up to 100 users Face recognition based & Touchless Attendance via Kiosk app (tablet/mobile) at entrance Geo-fenced attendance via User app User/Admin app (Android, iOS) Admin web dashboard Attendance policies/compliance Multiple reports and Analytics 1 year of attendance historic data accessible Contract Workers attendance Offline attendance mode Start a Free Trial Get a Free Trial Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Responsibilities: Develop highly effective, original and targeted contents. Experience in the development of high-performance APIs. Collaborate with front-end developers to integrate user-facing elements with server-side logic. Advanced debugging/testing/optimization skills. Analyze and maintain existing software applications. Design highly scalable, testable code. Discover and fix programming bugs. Requirements: Prior work experience as a backend developer Hands-on experience in PHP, Node js, MySQL, REST APIs, MicroServices, Apache. Good understanding of technology-related products and services. Exposure to Azure/Google cloud, any PHP Framework and Angular is a plus. BE/BTech Computers, MSc/MCA or similar. Experience: 2 to 3 years. You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits Work closely with and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. Challenge yourself and take your career to the next level. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Job Title: Content Writer Location: Baner, Pune About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. Responsibilities: Design content marketing strategies and set short-term goals. Undertake content marketing initiatives to achieve business targets. Produce high-quality content by collaborating with the product and marketing team. Create an editorial calendar, delegate tasks, and ensure that deadlines are met. Regularly deliver engaging content. Edit, proofread, and improve the content. Optimize content considering SEO and Google Analytics and analyze web traffic metrics. Ensure a strong web presence on various channels. Generate ideas to increase customer engagement. Requirements: 3-5 years of proven work experience as a Content writer or similar role preferably in B2B SaaS or technology domain. Good understanding of technology related products and services. Research about product , market, and promote the product. Proficient in MS Office and WordPress or other Content Management Software. Understanding of web publishing requirements and publishing content, blogs, ebooks on different platforms. Ability to predict audience preferences with an editorial mindset. Hands-on experience with SEO and web traffic metrics. Expertise in social media platforms. Leveraging AI for content writing. Project management skills and attention to detail. Excellent communication and writing skills in English. Bachelors / Masters degree in Marketing, English, Journalism, or relevant field. Good to have: Has worked at growth stage startup Education background of Computer Engineering and MBA You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits. Work closely with founders and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form