Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively June 25, 2024 As businesses are embracing digital transformation, they are expanding beyond geographical boundaries. The traditional 9 to 5 hours for companies with global customers are not sustainable anymore. To offer round-the-clock service, companies need to employ shift management. Shift rostering is becoming popular among employees as it allows them to work outside the conventional 9-5 schedule. Shifts are crucial for prompt customer care, continuous business operations, and avoiding any service gaps. In this article, we will explore shift management and its benefits. Table of Contents What is shift rostering? Importance of shift rostering for a company 1. Well-managed shifts allow employee flexibility 2. Increase productivity and company growth 3. Help reduce labor costs by saving overtime Why manual shift rostering is a problem? How to optimize shift management effectively 1. Plan shift requirements in advance 2. Use automated tools to manage shifts 3. Plan the schedule in the software or tool 4. Track employees 5. Detailed report of the roster Truein for ultimate shift management Some features that make Truein stand out: Conclusion What is shift rostering? A shift roster also known as shift management is a schedule that determines the hours of work or ‘shift’ that employees should work for in a company. It typically includes a list of employees and information regarding their schedules, such as the timing, location, and responsibilities. Most companies use shift management to ensure that each shift has an adequate number of employees. It is necessary to ensure that the productivity remains the same and the work distribution is even. W hen there is a larger workforce or multiple shifts, problems can often occur, and shift management helps spot the issues. Importance of shift rostering for a company Employers can use shift management to get high productivity from employees in each shift. If you are not already using shift rostering to manage workers’ schedules, you miss several benefits of shift management. 1. Well-managed shifts allow employee flexibility Employees value flexibility, and ever since the pandemic struck, employees have wanted flexibility more than any other thing in a job. According to a survey, 63% of employees want more flexibility in their careers . Work shifts allow employees to manage their time better. Employees with childcare responsibilities want early shifts, while university students might wish to go for evening shifts. Well-managed shifts let employees manage their time well, reducing the attrition rate. 2. Increase productivity and company growth When employees work in shifts, they are not over-worked or burdened with tasks due to uneven work distribution. It makes them more productive and prevents employee burnout. Also, companies can use shifts to stay open for longer and be well-staffed to increase output and revenues. It leads to company growth. 3. Help reduce labor costs by saving overtime Overtime is a significant cost for businesses. Most companies report that the overtime budget comprises 10% to 15% of their annual budget . With effective shift planning, companies can tailor the staff number as per their need in shifts. For example, a company can divide a workforce of 60 into three shift rosters of 20 employees. Then the shift hours can accommodate peak hours and ensure that the maximum number of employees are available at these hours. Such a shift management system will help reduce labor costs without compromising efficiency and productivity. Shift management is essential, but most managers think shift rostering is about letting staff know the number of hours they need to work. It is this thought process that prompts them to do shift rostering manually. Unfortunately, manual shift rostering can be highly challenging. Why manual shift rostering is a problem? According to a study, most companies with manual shift management spend 19,741 person-hours every year on it. Manual shift management relies on human intervention. Every change and following updates in the roster are done manually. It is challenging to plan the roster every time there is a change as it is highly time-consuming. Furthermore, when no automated system exists, HR managers cannot keep track of who is working and who’s not in real-time. It also makes it challenging to manage shifts, and check the absentees manually. Manual shift management is rigid; any shift change will require hours to rearrange the entire roster. It also makes frequent shift swapping tedious. Also, with no central data storage or tools to extract the data, HR will depend on worksheets to make resource management decisions. It is time-consuming and leads to frequent errors in shift management. How to optimize shift management effectively As manual shift management is not sustainable, companies need automated solutions to optimize and improve shift rostering. Here are some benefits of such optimization: 1. Plan shift requirements in advance Effective shift management is about timing. To reduce the number of absentees and absence requests, you must provide them with the work schedule ahead of time. When you plan things like the number of shifts, no. of employees in each shift, and the work, you allow enough time for employees to prepare for their shift. This flexibility is essential to give plenty of room and avoid last-minute scrambling. Managers must focus on shift planning to reduce the overall stress and tension associated with last-minute schedules. It does not have a positive impact on employees. 2. Use automated tools to manage shifts Digital transformation of businesses is essential, and so, when companies embrace technology, they become adaptable and future-proof. For schedule management optimization, companies can use scheduling software solutions like Truein . Today, flexible and user-friendly automated tools are available that HR managers can use to manage shifts. Paper tables and spreadsheets are outdated; automated tools help companies optimize their shift planning and reduce costs and workforce overheads. 3. Plan the schedule in the software or tool Manual shift planning adds much overhead for both employees and managers. For instance, if an employee requests a shift change, he will put a request manually in the absence of software or tool. Then the manager has to review and approve the request manually. But somewhere along the way, the request can be forgotten or miscommunicated. A tool or software can make the entire scheduling process quick and effective. 4. Track employees Managers can quickly identify absentee replacements, track employees in real-time, and handle shift swaps and approvals when the company has software for shift management. For instance, Truein has options to optimize resource allocation by tracking employees. It allows planned work distribution among available employees in a shift. 5. Detailed report of the roster Most shift rostering software provides reporting features. From a central dashboard, managers can view and generate reports like the number of shifts, employees, detail of employees, etc. These detailed reports help optimize company resources and boost productivity. Truein for ultimate shift management Truein is an AI-based touchless face recognition attendance system that offers shift management and shift rostering capabilities. It is designed for businesses of all sizes and has brands like Tata 1mg and Godrej as clients. Whether a company wants a shift management solution for employees, contractual workers, or distributed workforce, Truein can accommodate all requirements. It requires no additional hardware as employees can download the app on their smartphones while managers can track and manage employees and shifts from a central dashboard from their mobile or laptop screens. Some features that make Truein stand out: It auto-assigns shifts by detecting the arrival time of an employee. There is no need to prefix the roster. It allows multiple shift tracking, i.e., employees can break the total duration of their shift into various shifts. Managers can manually change shifts anytime. Shift rostering analytics and summary are available in the central dashboard. Entirely customizable-employers can configure the shift timing, weekly rotational off, leaves, etc., as per their company policies. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion If you don’t want managers to waste a lot of their working hours on shift planning, you need to deploy an automated shift rostering software solution like Truein. So schedule a free demo and try Truein which is an all-in-one shift scheduling software & employee attendance management app that businesses of all sizes can use to manage their employees from one place. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organizations 8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					8 Benefits Of Automated Time And Attendance Systems 8 Benefits Of Automated Time And Attendance Systems June 25, 2024 Human resource management is one of the most resource-intensive operations of running a business. Managers at a company perform several tasks and activities, but one of the most tedious is time and attendance management. Many organizations still rely on manual mechanisms to record time and attendance without realizing the cost and redundancy such systems incur. Manual attendance recording leads to many challenges. Manual time entry is time-consuming, but it is also ineffective and outdated. There is always a risk of human error, and employees can commit time theft easily. Automated time and attendance systems help organizations improve the accuracy and efficacy of recordings. Table of Contents What is an automated time and attendance system? 8 Benefits of automated time and attendance system 1. Improves productivity 2. Dependable accuracy 3. It saves time and money 4. HR can better handle shift management 5. Improve employee satisfaction by preventing payroll errors 6. Designed for the contractual and distributed workforce 7. Better security than manual systems 8. Easier to manage as compared to a manual attendance system How can Truein help you with automating the time and attendance system? What is an automated time and attendance system? An automated time and attendance system is a cloud-based or local-server-based app and web system that organizations use to record attendance. Automated attendance systems are of several kinds, such as biometric attendance systems, punching systems, and face recognition attendance systems . Let’s look at the benefits of automated time and attendance systems. 8 Benefits of automated time and attendance system 1. Improves productivity Managers have to spend long, tedious hours keeping track of employees from when they check in till their shift gets over. It is a waste of time for them, and so by using an automated attendance system, they can utilize their time on strategies to improve productivity. Such a system helps track, monitor, and update employee details on the payroll. In the absence of an automated time and attendance system, monitoring and recording time becomes a full-time job. When managers are free from this repetitive administrative task, they can focus on formulating business strategies and improving decision-making. It brings efficiency and productivity into the teams and increases profits. 2. Dependable accuracy Fewer errors and improved accuracy are essential benefits of automated time and attendance systems. According to a survey by Axsium Group, companies lose around $1,600 per employee every year due to human error in attendance management. Manual attendance systems can contribute to financial losses. Cloud-based automated attendance systems like Truein can collect employee data in real-time accurately. Such time and attendance systems also provide all-in-one scheduling and overtime management services. Also, the dependable accuracy of attendance apps ensures no over or under-payments. All employees are paid accurately for the hours they work. 3. It saves time and money Automated attendance systems save time and improve productivity but also help keep costs. When managers have accurate data on overtime, leaves, and shifts, you pay employees for the hours that they have worked, not extra. Automated systems prevent time theft that additionally saves money. Apart from these direct cost savings, automated attendance systems help find issues in shift management to improve productivity that boosts revenue. With automatic time and attendance recording, you save money in the short and long run. 4. HR can better handle shift management Shift rostering is essential to maintain a 24/7 work schedule without causing employee burnout. Automated time and attendance systems allow scheduling, and managers can plan shifts based on analytics and reports to ensure there are no gaps in the availability of the employees. Tracking the employees in real-time helps distribute work at peak hours more efficiently. It is also possible to notify employees about shift changes as soon as there is any change. It allows employees to plan their timing and prevents absences. 5. Improve employee satisfaction by preventing payroll errors Compensation is a big motivator for employees. Any payroll error can lead to dissatisfaction among employees. For instance, it can be highly demotivating if the employees work overtime to help the company meet its production goals but do not get the money for hours outside the shifts. Automated attendance systems help prevent such inaccuracies in payroll. Automatic time and attendance recording allow employers and employees to keep track of how many hours an employee is working, eliminating any scope for miscommunication or errors. Systems like Truein integrate with some of the most popular payroll software allowing companies to maintain a high level of employee satisfaction. 6. Designed for the contractual and distributed workforce Companies with distributed teams and contractual workers can significantly benefit from the automated time and attendance systems. These systems allow segregation of employees based on the type of employment. Managers can include distributed and contractual workers’ policies within the system to let them know of overtime and payroll terms. 7. Better security than manual systems Automated time and attendance systems contribute to the overall security of the workplace. You can integrate most of these systems seamlessly into existing payroll solutions. They aid identity time theft and other kinds of employee fraud. Such systems allow tracking of employees in real-time, enabling the deployment of security measures to prevent any suspicious activities. Automated attendance systems use encryption to store all the employee data. This security feature prevents identity theft and helps protect both employees and customers. Employee identity compromise also puts customers at risk as cybercriminals can use the stolen identity to reach customers as employees and scam them. 8. Easier to manage as compared to a manual attendance system Automated attendance systems are usually cloud-based, making them decentralized on the operation level however at the same time centralized for admin control and real-time view. It makes them lightweight to deploy. Installation is possible with a few clicks, and employees do not have to do a lot to mark attendance. Manual attendance systems require full-time attention to record time and attendance. Furthermore, there is no way to import or export data, making it more difficult to make payroll decisions. Any company not embracing modern attendance solutions risks its profits and productivity in the digital era. Companies can free their managers from repetitive administrative tasks with automated time and attendance systems. It will allow human minds to focus on more critical tasks like strategy and positioning rather than recordkeeping. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How can Truein help you with automating the time and attendance system? Truein is a cloud-based time and attendance system with all the necessary features. It is an employee attendance management solution that companies can also use for shift scheduling. It allows companies to store all their timekeeping data in a cloud database, accessible to managers on any device. Any business can benefit from Truein’s capabilities. Manage attendance, track payroll, overtime, and shifts using the powers of this modern-day attendance and schedule system. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization How to Use Time and Attendance Systems Productively in the Middle East? Adapting to the Future: Why Middle Eastern Shopping Centers are Embracing Face Recognition Time Attendance Systems Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? June 25, 2024 Attendance management is among the prime duties of the HR department. Automated attendance management applications like Truein can make it easier to record attendance. Automating attendance recording and payroll management is not the only benefit of adopting such systems. Attendance regularization is another crucial advantage that automated attendance systems offer. Let’s understand why there is a requirement to regularize attendance and how vital attendance regularization is for any organization. Table of Contents What is attendance regularization? Should leaves and missed punches not marked be regularized? How can Truein help to regularize attendance? Attendance Regularization Email Template For HR Managers Apply and approve regularization requests from Truein User App Manually regularize employee attendance Conclusion What is attendance regularization? Attendance Regularization is a feature in the time and attendance management system that enables employees to correct the ‘in’ and ‘out’ time. This is an important feature required to introduce flexibility in the workplace. Suppose your company uses a biometric system for attendance recording. If an employee has to leave for some fieldwork or attend a meeting with the client, in the absence of any option, the attendance system will mark them on leave. Their inability to mark attendance will wrongfully lead to a pay cut. To overcome the issue, employees will have to contact the HR team to inform them about their situation, who will correct the attendance. The whole process is tedious. A better way is to provide an attendance regularization option to the employees to correct their work hours if required. Attendance regularization is also “Work from home” friendly. When working from home, employees have to step out of work from time to time to attend to their kids, pets, or some other responsibilities. In such a scenario, they have to clock out and later clock in to complete their work shift. But as they have not worked continuously, they have to regularize their attendance to make sure they get paid for their hours. Should leaves and missed punches not marked be regularized? Organizations should have a policy stating that employees should apply for regularization before the end of the month. If they are not regularized, you should have an appropriate rule policy that states application will not be accepted or one that results in disciplinary action. This is essential to ensure that all leaves and attendance punches are accurately recorded and marked on time to avoid any potential issues or misunderstandings between employer and employee. How can Truein help to regularize attendance? Truein is an AI-based face recognition attendance system that makes attendance regularization a simple task. Companies can record all attendance and leave related activities into a cloud database through Truein’s user app or web interface. This attendance system allows both employees and HR managers to initiate and complete attendance regularization. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Attendance Regularization Email Template For HR Managers You can use the below email template to give feedback to an employee attendance regularization request. To: Name Title Work Address From: HR Manager Date: Subject: Feedback Regarding Attendance Regularization Request Dear: Please consider this letter feedback of your concern regarding attendance regularization. As reported in the attendance records you worked for a total of ______ hours on ______. According to your request the total working hours are updated to _______ hours. Your continued level of good attendance is greatly appreciated. We expect you will keep up the good work. This attendance regularization update will be including in your performance appraisal in the area of “attendance”. Your good health and presence on the job are very important to us and are essential for the smooth operation of the department. Thank you. ________________________________________ ________ Employee’s or Representative’s Signature Date cc: Personnel File Labor Relations You can also include any information regarding their performance, attendance, leaves or any additional comment related to their payroll. Apply and approve regularization requests from Truein User App It is straightforward to apply for attendance regularization from the user app. Employees can open the Truein app and scroll down to ‘Quick Actions’ From the menu, select ‘Request Correction in Attendance’ To apply for attendance regularization, select ‘Request Correction’ HR managers can approve or reject the regularization request with the same ease. Follow the above three steps, and in the Regularization menu, select ‘Manage Employees Regularization.’ Manually regularize employee attendance If an employee forgets to clock in or out, Truein allows managers to regularize their attendance manually. To do so: Open the Truein Web Dashboard Go to Attendance Log Select the date It will open a list of employees, search for the respective employee Select ‘Edit In Time’ or ‘Edit Out Time’ and update accordingly from the right column. Truein also allows for attendance regularization in bulk. You can know more about this option here . Conclusion Attendance regularization ensures that employees get paid for the hours they put in at work. If your organization still lacks the attendance system that allows easy attendance regularization, switch to Truein. Schedule a free demo today and see it in action! Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? What Is Shift Swap Policy and How To Create It For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form