Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System May 27, 2024 Workforce management is an essential aspect of running a successful business. Companies use tools to track employee working hours, such as punch cards, access cards, timesheets, biometric systems, and attendance software. An attendance management system is critical in human resource management and payroll. If you run a company, your business operations must comply with state and local labor laws, payroll requirements, and overtime rules. All these compliances must be met while ensuring no inaccuracies, tampering, or time theft in staff attendance. These requirements highlight the importance of an attendance management system, as manual timekeeping practices can be detrimental to worker morale and productivity. In this attendance management system guide, we will explore how organizations can reduce the administrative workload of managers, improve the accuracy of attendance records, and save time by choosing the right attendance management software. Table of Contents What is an attendance management system? Importance of attendance management system 1. Productivity 2. Workforce discipline 3. Overtime management 4. Prevent time theft 5. Accurate payroll 6. Compliance Types of attendance management systems 1. Manual Attendance Management 2. Web-based Attendance Timesheets Management 3. Punch Clocks 4. Biometric-based Attendance Systems Features to look for in an attendance management system 1. Clocking in and out 2. Biometric-based 3. Reporting and analytics 4. Leave management 5. Mobile and cloud support 6. Payroll integration Truein: A comprehensive attendance management software for every industry Conclusion What is an attendance management system? Attendance management is the procedure within the organization to record, adjust, verify, and calculate the working hours of the workers and the time they spend away from work. With attendance management, employers can access the information on the total work hours of the staff for compliance and payroll. An attendance management system is an application that tracks employee time and attendance, including breaks, leaves, active hours, and overtime. These systems ease the workforce management process by automating most of the tasks. Modern attendance management systems technological evolution to ensure workers cannot tamper with attendance through buddy punching or time theft. For instance, cloud-based software solutions use face recognition to identify workers. Importance of attendance management system Every industry is benefited from an attendance management system. To truly determine whether you need such a system, you must be familiar with the importance of an attendance management system. Here are some reasons you need an attendance management system in your company. 1. Productivity If your managers are busy completing tedious administrative tasks, they need more time to focus on matters that contribute to increased productivity and better revenues. An attendance management system can automate most attendance keeping, freeing the management from tedious administrative tasks. It directly contributes to productivity as managers don’t have to handle repetitive administrative tasks. Also, automated time records are highly accurate and have minimal risks of human errors. This makes payroll calculation much more accessible and precise. 2. Workforce discipline Labor management becomes unpredictable if there is no discipline in the work culture. If workers attend work late, often take leaves, or indulge in time theft, it is mandatory to address these issues. If some workers are not disciplined, it can turn infectious, influencing other employees to adopt such bad habits. This can wreak havoc on the company. Hardworking and punctual employees must be protected against unproductive and poor work ethics. An attendance management system can help supervisors and managers keep track of workers’ attendance and identify any pattern of indiscipline. 3. Overtime management Poorly managed over time can eat into your profits and ultimately impact the company’s bottom line. This is why you must be accurate with recording and calculating overtime hours. An attendance management system can help you track workers across multiple shifts and record overtime hours much more accurately. When companies need to increase production or meet increased demand, they can utilize overtime to meet the requirements without hiring more staff. A proper worker time tracking system can help increase employee satisfaction by offering overtime to earn more. 4. Prevent time theft The primary reason why staff attendance management systems came into existence is to prevent time theft by employees. With accurate timekeeping mechanisms, many workers can use the system and indulge in time theft and buddy punching. Biometric-based attendance management systems offer a foolproof way to track and enforce attendance and overtime policies consistently and diligently. 5. Accurate payroll Nothing demoralizes workers more than receiving inaccurate pay. They expect to be paid when they put in proper hours at work. Inaccuracy can be easily minimized by deploying attendance management systems helping companies accurately measure and calculate shifts, attendance, and overtime. 6. Compliance Running a business requires complying with various compliance requirements. With an attendance management system in place, it becomes easy to create and implement different policies about employee management, such as attendance, overtime, leave, etc. Also, the policies can be made available to all employees, and any changes can be conveyed directly. Types of attendance management systems You will find several attendance management system solutions, but you must pick the most suitable for your business type. Here is a quick view of the attendance management systems available for employee time tracking. 1. Manual Attendance Management Paper timesheets and Excel sheets are the standard methods to record employee time and attendance at many companies. It can work for you if you have a small number of workers. However, it remains an outdated technique that is prone to time theft and requires too much time to calculate payroll. 2. Web-based Attendance Timesheets Management Automated timesheets are web-based attendance management systems that allow employees to access timesheets online to record their clock in and out. There is also an option to mention leaves, vacations, and overtime. 3. Punch Clocks Most manufacturing and retail companies still use punch cards to track and record employee time and attendance. It offers automation over manual attendance management systems, but still, there are better ways to track work hours. Punch clocks have high scope for buddy punching, in which an employee can punch in for a colleague with his time card when he’s not present at work. 4. Biometric-based Attendance Systems The most popular genre of attendance management systems currently in use is biometric systems. These attendance management systems have sensors to read the biometric attributes of workers. As the biometric qualities are unique and extremely difficult to copy, biometric attendance systems virtually eliminate buddy punching with fingerprint and face recognition solutions. Features to look for in an attendance management system Now that we understand the different types of attendance management systems, we must know what features to look for when selecting a solution for your company. 1. Clocking in and out This is an obvious requirement from any attendance management system. While the level of information a system captures when clocking in and out can vary, at minimum, an attendance management system must log an employee’s ID and a timestamp. If your company has an extensive infrastructure with multiple entry and exit points, you can choose a system that also logs door info and movement type (in/out). Modern applications like Truein allow mobile-based attendance recording . It is a fast, secure, efficient, and time-saving solution. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Biometric-based As we mentioned, the manual and semi-automated attendance systems must be foolproof. Such systems can be compromised easily. This is why the attendance system you choose must be biometric-based. A biometric attendance system uses physical attributes like retinas, fingerprints, and face recognition to identify workers. It is impossible to game the system with false information or commit buddy punching. This increases the efficiency and integrity of workforce management. You must deploy biometric attendance systems in your company for security, accuracy, and better employee management. 3. Reporting and analytics The attendance management system must offer reporting and analytics for efficient workforce management. Managers can make insightful decisions when they have access to various attendance-related reports. Absenteeism is one of the essential data points to help identify a pattern. It helps to determine whether there is a need for an intervention, and the employee’s behavior must be investigated and addressed. If employee absenteeism , too frequent time off, and shift switching are not addressed, it can read to productivity issues. An attendance management system must offer advanced reporting and analytics options. 4. Leave management Another important feature that an attendance management system must have is leave management . It is required by law that workers are provided with a certain number of leaves. It includes paid leaves , maternity leaves, sick days , etc. To remain compliant with several labor laws, an attendance management system must offer options for leave management. It will help HR track leaves for individual employees and make payroll easier. 5. Mobile and cloud support Modern technological advancements have improved the IT infrastructure, and companies can better use it for workforce management. An attendance management system with mobile and cloud support will deploy easily. Most traditional employee time and attendance tracking systems are not portable. Therefore, before choosing any attendance management system, you must ensure that it has high portability. Furthermore, its operation must be straightforward enough for workers to understand and use. Systems that support mobile and cloud infrastructure are best as they can be deployed without additional hardware and are often easy to use. 6. Payroll integration There is no point in installing an attendance management system if HR still has to process payroll manually. A genuinely effective attendance management system must augment payroll by providing data for easy integration into the payroll system. You must choose an attendance management system that offers easy payroll integration. It will facilitate accurate compensation calculations by providing correct overtime and work hours. Truein: A comprehensive attendance management software for every industry Truein is an industry-standard product utilizing the power of AI and face recognition technology to deliver software-based attendance management solutions. It features all the necessary functions that we listed above. Using facial recognition, it even identifies workers if they are wearing masks or glasses. Truein is a cloud-based employee time and attendance management solution that employers can deploy anywhere instantly. It works on mobiles and tablets, so there is no need to invest in any peripherals, making it suitable to deploy at remote sites. You can have a real-time view of multiple sites, ensuring managers have transparent and centralized control over workers’ work and overtime hours, leaves, and shifts. Additionally, Truein easily integrates with all major payroll systems and offers 70+ customizable policies that you can use as per the location and staff category. Schedule a free demo today and see how you can automate the attendance management in your organization. Conclusion We hope you now understand the importance of an attendance management system for workforce management. Several types of attendance management systems are available, so you must choose a solution that supports biometric-based identification, overtime and leave policy management, payroll integration, and more. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws Georgia PTO Laws: A Comprehensive Guide on Georgia Paid Time-off Laws Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace May 20, 2024 Although many believe that overtime must be avoided, it can be a good choice for companies in several situations. Think about it; overtime is an efficient solution for 24/7 coverage in the company. It can help any organization to improve its competitive position in the local labor market by offering the opportunity to workers to earn extra income. overtime also allows workers to respond to any short-term variation in workload or staffing quickly. Companies don’t have to manage additional staff to cover such variations in requirements and only pay for the time needed. Still, if you are facing challenges, it might be because you don’t know how to manage overtime. Effectively using overtime requires employers to understand the adverse effects on the workforce. This is what we are going to discuss in this article. Table of Contents Why is it essential to manage overtime? Five best practices to manage overtime more effectively 1. Cap overtime limit 2. Track employee working hours and overtime 3. Create an overtime policy and share it with your team 4. Cross-train employees 5. Allow overtime only when there is a demand How can Truein automate the process of overtime tracking and calculation? Conclusion Why is it essential to manage overtime? If employers are not effectively using overtime, there can be severe repercussions on workers’ productivity and health. Poorly managed overtime can result in employee burnout, reduction in worker engagement, and excessive turnover. Workers overworking interferes with their ability to get adequate sleep, leading to poor health and safety and quality problems on the job. Furthermore, if the overtime is prolonged, it can inadvertently create an overtime-dependent workforce with higher absenteeism and lower productivity. To minimize these consequences, managers must know how to manage overtime reasonably. It is essential to keep an eye on overall and individual overtime hours and monitor absentees and workers exploiting the overtime policy. There are several steps you can take to manage overtime more effectively. Five best practices to manage overtime more effectively 1. Cap overtime limit Overtime hours must always be regulated to keep the labor cost within sustainable limits—generally, overtime pay kicks in when employees reach 40 hours per week. As there are no federal limitations on how much overtime an employee can work, there must be clear policies capping the overtime limit and explaining which employees are or aren’t allowed to work overtime. Employers must determine a weekly, monthly, and annual cap on overtime hours that the business can afford to pay per employee. Capping the overtime limit is necessary to ensure that the work gets distributed more evenly amongst the workers and every employee gets a chance to work overtime hours if they want to earn the extra pay. 2. Track employee working hours and overtime It will be a tedious task to track employee working hours and overtime if managers have to do it manually. This is why it’s essential to deploy an automated overtime management software like Truein that can efficiently track and monitor employee working hours, facilitate overtime calculations, and easily integrates into the payroll system. Tracking overtime within the workforce is necessary to ensure that everyone gets a fair chance to earn extra income. You can also adjust schedules if a worker hits their maximum overtime hours for the week. Automation provides you with data and insights on managing overtime more effectively. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 3. Create an overtime policy and share it with your team An overtime policy is mandatory to provide a complete overview of the company’s stands regarding overtime rules. It must also entail all the local, state, and federal laws around overtime hours, and the company compensates for working overtime. A good overtime policy includes the rules and procedures to control overtime. It should also highlight how employees discuss overtime with their managers. Set expectations for both workers and supervisors to facilitate communication regarding the same. 4. Cross-train employees A “single point of failure” must never be present within the workforce. Simply put, a few workers should not be the most skilled or with the most experience, as their absence can be detrimental to the productivity of the overall workforce. Spreading responsibility and specialties among the whole team is one way to reduce overtime. Instead of relying on a few skilled workers, you must have a training and development program to train other workers to step in and pick up the load if required. Cross-training employees is one of the best ways to ensure that production and business operations are not affected by the absence of a few workers. 5. Allow overtime only when there is a demand There must not be an endless overtime cycle. Usually, the demand for more work spikes during busy seasons or when your business is going through aggressive growth. This leads to increased profits, but if you are not managing overtime more effectively, your earnings might directly go to paying employees for overtime and health costs. This is why it is necessary to match staffing to demand and allow overtime only when required. Managers must schedule smarter to reduce overtime and to ensure that the correct number of staff is available when needed. How can Truein automate the process of overtime tracking and calculation? Truein is a complete employee time and attendance management solution . It is a cloud-based, hardware-less application that also features overtime recording, calculation, and management. Irrespective of the industry or workforce size, you can deploy Truein at any remote site or company campus for effective work-hour recording. The app uses an AI-based algorithm for identifying and clocking in workers. It also features GPS tracking and geofencing , ensuring workers are present on-site while recording overtime. Truein supports custom reports with overtime calculations and 70+ policies to automate overtime, shifts, and payroll-ready reports. Schedule a demo today and try Truein for free. Conclusion These are the essential tips you must know on how to manage overtime within your organization. Every company has challenges when working overtime, but automation software like Truein benefits every employer. It automates a large part of overtime tracking and calculation that helps managers schedule better. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business Managing Seasonal/Temporary Workers in Construction: Best Practices for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions July 26, 2024 Managing the workforce is challenging, but things are more complicated when your workers are distributed at several locations. In industries like construction, retail, and facility management, workers are distributed over sites in different locations, resulting in inefficiencies in business management processes unless the distributed team challenges are met with strategy and planning. This article will list the most commonly occurring challenges for distributed teams and explore solutions to manage and run distributed workforce effectively. Table of Contents Six distributed team challenges and how to manage them 1. Poor communication with staff 2. Time management 3. Keeping up with compliance regulations 4. Lack of skilled workforce 5. Productivity issues 6. Scheduling geographically distributed teams Conclusion Six distributed team challenges and how to manage them 1. Poor communication with staff A distributed team will have workers at different geolocations, and most communication will likely happen through messaging or over call. The absence of face-to-face communication creates an opportunity for miscommunication if no body language is at play. It is common for managers and supervisors to accidentally convey a tone other than what they mean. This creates resentment or distress among workers and can result in unnecessary conflicts or confrontations. The solution is to implement measures to avoid miscommunication by ensuring the right message is conveyed to the workers at the site. You can plan training sessions for managers and supervisors to let them know how to communicate better with workers and what kind of tone to avoid. Also, supervisors must be encouraged to communicate with workers and laborers on video calls so the workers can better interpret their facial expressions. 2. Time management Your teams will work in different time zones if you have globally distributed manufacturing units or work sites. As a manager, getting a quick response from workers will be difficult. Similarly, it can be challenging to simultaneously initiate and deliver training programs to all members in every time zone. Time management is a significant distributed team challenge when dealing with workers working in different time zones but are part of the same team. Also, mastering the digital work environment is crucial. You must implement a different shift schedule across multiple time zones. Also, the overtime rules will vary in these zones. The solution to time management distributed team challenges is to choose a time during everyone’s typical daytime work hours. It can be morning for some workers, afternoon, or early evening for others. You might have to record training sessions for teams in vastly different time zones so workers can access them later. In addition, you can maximize productivity by creating shifts such that workers in the same teams are working the same hours. 3. Keeping up with compliance regulations If your workforce is distributed over different locations within the same country or internationally, keeping up with the compliance regulations is challenging. Every state has its own set of labor and federal laws. Employers must comply with every labor-management law to avoid lawsuits. A 2019 Global Teams study by the Society for Human Resources (SHRM) and Globalization Partners found that over 40% of companies find dealing with international labor and business laws overwhelming. One of the best ways to deal with compliance regulations if you manage an international workforce is to hire an employer of record (EOR) service . These services provide an easy solution to handle payroll, contracts, and other administrative tasks while complying with local and international labor laws. 4. Lack of skilled workforce It is plausible that not at all locations skilled workforce will be available easily. This causes a challenge for managers to balance the skilled and unskilled workers for the projects. The easiest way to deal with this distributed team challenge is to create training programs. Developing the workers’ skills at the site is the most efficient way to manage the skill distribution gap. You can also create diverse training programs to better utilize a unique set of skills or cultural diversity the workers might bring to the team. 5. Productivity issues When managers or supervisors are not located on-site, it can be challenging to maintain a productive work environment. Laborers and workers at remote sites can only be sincere with their work if there are measures to track their location and activities. It is one of the significant distributed team challenges to maintain a productive environment for remote workers. Workers at remote locations need help maintaining the task at hand because they feel a supervisor’s or manager’s impending authority. To make workers accountable for their work, companies can deploy employee monitoring solutions such as Truein. It is a complete employee time and attendance management solution that provides geofencing and GPS-tracking features. Its real-time location and attendance tracking feature helps the manager to maintain productivity at the site. Truein is a cloud-based software solution that can be deployed at any remote worksite without any hardware. Workers can download the Truein app on their smartphones and use its AI-based facial recognition system to clock in. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 6. Scheduling geographically distributed teams Shift scheduling is challenging when you have a distributed team. When workers are at different locations but are working on the same project, it can be challenging to schedule with the workers. For instance, in an automobile manufacturing company, only some parts are manufactured within the same unit. In the engine assembly line, molding of the parts and the assembly of the engine often occur at different locations. However, these two teams must work in sync to ensure that all the measurements and adjustments are accurate. This present distributed team challenges for scheduling the workers. The solution to engage geographically distributed team members is to focus on scheduling appropriately, so their shifts coincide. Truein can help you with shift scheduling as well. It can create a schedule and share it with the workers instantly. You can also create shift schedules for contractual workers from the same dashboard, even if they are not part of the full-time workforce. Schedule a free demo to see how Truein can track the attendance and overtime of your employees and also help with shift scheduling. Conclusion Distribute teams present opportunities and associated challenges as well. The distributed team challenges we have listed here are the most common. We hope the solutions we have shared will help you to deal with these challenges and maintain a productive and progressive workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 26, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 26, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 26, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 26, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 26, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 7 Manufacturing Industry HR Challenges and Possible Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form