Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours 8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours May 27, 2024 Tracking employee hours is a fundamental aspect of workforce management. Whether a startup or an enterprise, every business requires effective methods to keep track of work hours and pay. It is the only way to ensure your payroll processing is accurate and you comply with labor laws. When you have a comprehensive employee time tracking system in place, it helps managers understand how employees manage their time and fosters accountability within the workforce. This article explores the best way to track employee hours, the benefits of tracking work hours, and key considerations when selecting an app to track work hours. Table of Contents 8 best ways to track employee hours 1. Pen & paper-based employee hour tracking 2. Manual Excel timesheets 3. Mobile Apps 4. Biometric Clock-In (Fingerprint) 5. Browser plug-ins and URL tracking 6. Time-tracking software 7. Using a time clock station or kiosk 8. Physical time clocks or punch-in tools Benefits of Keeping Track of Work Hours 1. Ensures payroll accuracy 2. Ensures compliance with labor laws and time-off policies 3. Improves understanding of where employee time goes 4. Encourage accountability What to Look for When Buying a Tool for Tracking Employee Hours? 1. Multi-device support: 2. Manager-friendly features: 3. Employee-friendly settings: 4. Easy integrations: How Truein Can Help with Tracking Employee Hours? Conclusion FAQs 1. Which businesses should use a kiosk to track employee hours? 2. What should you look for in an employee time-tracking app? 8 best ways to track employee hours 1. Pen & paper-based employee hour tracking Pen and paper-based employee hour tracking refers to manual time and attendance keeping on paper forms or using time cards. Manual methods are the simplest way to keep track of work hours and pay and are also straightforward and low-cost. However, this method is prone to human error, which leads to inaccuracies and potential payroll disputes. Also, some employees can intentionally inflate their work hours, increasing costs. Additionally, maintaining and organizing physical records takes time and effort. 2. Manual Excel timesheets Microsoft Excel timesheets remain one of the most widely used manual time and attendance-keeping methods. Employees enter their clock-in and clock-out times into a spreadsheet, and managers use the data to determine total hours worked and overtime. While Excel timesheets are more organized than pen and paper, employees still need to enter data, making them prone to errors manually. Manual Excel timesheets could be more efficient and convenient for businesses with large workforces. Also, tracking changes or revisions can be challenging when working. 3. Mobile Apps Another best way to track employee hours is the use of mobile applications. Many free and paid mobile apps are available to track clock-in and out times. Premium time and attendance software like Truein offers accompanying mobile apps that can be installed on workers’ smartphones. Using the mobile app to track work hours offers flexibility, allowing employees to record their hours from anywhere. Also, smartphones have built-in GPS sensors that enable an employee time tracking system to offer features such as GPS-enabled geofencing. Truein app to track work hours utilizes AI algorithms and offers features like face recognition that prevent buddy punching. 4. Biometric Clock-In (Fingerprint) Biometric time tracking methods , such as fingerprint recognition, offer high accuracy and security over manual methods. Fingerprint biometric time punching machines use unique biometric data (e.g., fingerprint) to clock in and out. The use of biometric solutions is an efficient way to track work hours. It prevents buddy bunching, ensuring that the person clocking in is the authorized employee. Biometric clock-in methods are especially effective for organizations that prioritize security and accuracy. 5. Browser plug-ins and URL tracking For industries such as IT, data processing, and HR administration that employ remote workers primarily using computers, browser plug-ins, and URL tracking tools are the best ways to track employee hours. Employers can use these tools to monitor the websites and applications employees access during work hours. It helps monitor and track work hours and ensures that employees are focused on productive tasks rather than non-work-related activities. However, this method is not a complete time and attendance tracking solution because employees can step away from their computers without logging out and still get paid for the hours not worked. 6. Time-tracking software It would help to have time-tracking software like Truein for complete time and attendance tracking. Such an app to track work hours comes with comprehensive features in addition to clock in/out. A time tracking software is a complete suite of tools that include scheduling, project tracking, reporting, leave management, and integrations with other business tools. Truein is a cloud app that automates attendance tracking, significantly reducing errors and providing detailed insights into employee productivity. It is an ideal employee time tracking system, especially beneficial for businesses with larger workforces or complex attendance requirements. Whether you have full-time employees or a contractual workforce, Truein is the best way to track employee hours. 7. Using a time clock station or kiosk Time clock stations or kiosks are physical devices at the workplace where employees can punch in and out using a card or badge. It can be a good way to track employee hours especially for industries with a high volume of on-site employees, such as IT services, construction, etc. These devices maintain a physical record of attendance and offer convenience, but they require initial investment in hardware and are usually high maintenance. Also most time clock stations or kiosk are hardware oriented ie requires biometric or cards to register in and out times which has several shortcomings. Biometrics might not function properly, workers may indulge in buddy punching, etc An alternate solution is Truein’s kiosk app which eliminates such issues with automated, face-recognition based technology that captures attendance accurately and provides insights in far greater detail. High level data such as number of staff working at any point of time, their location details, leave data, hours their clock in/out time, etc. can be directly accessed from the dashboard which can be utilized for shift management and improving workforce productivity. 8. Physical time clocks or punch-in tools Physical time clocks are similar to kiosk stations but have a basic functionality. Badge and magnetic stripe readers are punch-in tools that offer a low-cost time-tracking solution. However, the choice of physical time clocks and punch-in tools is restrictive and does not possess advanced features of modern time-tracking solutions such as Truein. Each of these employee time-tracking systems has pros and cons, and the best way to track employee hours depends on the specific needs and preferences of the organization. Benefits of Keeping Track of Work Hours 1. Ensures payroll accuracy Accurate time tracking is the fundamental requirement for payroll accuracy. When you meticulously keep track of work hours, HR has access to precise data for calculating salaries and wages. This accuracy reduces the risk of overpayments or underpayments, a significant reason for employee dissatisfaction. It can also lead to potential legal issues, so accurate work hours tracking is essential, as it mitigates the risks involved. Additionally, accurate payroll processing enhances employees’ trust in the company when they receive their earnings promptly and accurately. 2. Ensures compliance with labor laws and time-off policies Accurate time tracking is also crucial for compliance with labor laws and adherence to time-off policies. A company must adhere to the provisions related to overtime, break times, and required rest periods. With accurate work hours tracking, organizations can ensure they are meeting these legal requirements. It is also essential to manage time-off policies, such as vacation days and paid time off (PTO), preventing unauthorized time-off. 3. Improves understanding of where employee time goes Tracking employee hours gives you valuable insights into how workers allocate their work hours. This insight can be particularly beneficial for project management, resource allocation, and workforce optimization. Managers can identify tasks and projects’ time requirements and the areas where productivity improvements are required. 4. Encourage accountability Keeping track of work hours and pay encourages accountability among workers as they know they are being monitored and recorded. They are more likely to adhere to their work schedules and responsibilities. Time tracking also helps identify patterns of attendance and punctuality, allowing managers to recognize employees who consistently meet their work commitments. Conversely, it also helps identify absenteeism. What to Look for When Buying a Tool for Tracking Employee Hours? The choice of an app to track work hours can be daunting when there are so many solutions. Your focus must be on the most critical factors that decide the robustness and use of an employee time-tracking system. Here are the features to look for: 1. Multi-device support: It is essential to choose a solution that supports multiple devices, such as smartphones, desktops, and physical time clocks, to accommodate various work scenarios, such as remote work sites and distributed workforce. 2. Manager-friendly features: Any app to track work hours you choose must allow managers to monitor and analyze employee hours, generate insightful reports, and manage schedules efficiently. It should also have customizable policies such as overtime rules, break duration, and holiday pay to suit the needs of different types of workers – full-time, part-time, temporary, and casual. 3. Employee-friendly settings: The tools included in the time tracking software should be user-friendly for employees. They should be able to clock in and out and access their time records easily. The app must also be easy to install. 4. Easy integrations: Before deciding on software, ensure it integrates seamlessly with other software, such as payroll and HR systems, that your business uses to streamline processes. How Truein Can Help with Tracking Employee Hours? Truein is a modern, efficient, and accurate time and attendance solution with comprehensive features such as facial recognition, GPS tracking, shift scheduling, reporting, and seamless integration with payroll software. Its AI-backed algorithm ensures reliable and compliant time tracking. With facial recognition, businesses can prevent buddy punching, improve accountability, and enhance workforce management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion The choice of the best way to track employee hours depends on the size of the workforce your business employs. A comprehensive employee time tracking system like Truein ensures payroll accuracy, complies with labor laws, gain insights into workforce productivity, and encourages accountability in the workplace. Truein’s advanced features and integration capabilities align with every organization’s needs, ensuring efficient and reliable time tracking. FAQs 1. Which businesses should use a kiosk to track employee hours? Such time-tracking solutions suit businesses with on-site employees working at a dedicated physical location. They offer a more secure and easily accessible way to clock in and out for such companies. 2. What should you look for in an employee time-tracking app? The app to track the work hours you pick should offer comprehensive features apart from accuracy; it should also provide custom policies, integration capabilities, advanced reporting options, and user-friendliness for both employees and managers. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) How to Track Employee Absences? How To Track Employee Time and Attendance? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? May 31, 2024 Timeliness is of essence for commercial cleaning businesses because an on-time janitorial company is likely to get recurring business and word-of-mouth recommendations. Cleaning companies are also faced with unique challenges as they need to manage distributed employees across multiple locations. Having time and attendance software to automate staff tracking and improve workforce productivity is thus crucial. In this article, we will explore the importance of time and attendance software for any janitorial business, and how it can be used for staff scheduling to ensure the efficient running of the business operations. Table of Contents Challenges of managing cleaning company employees Advantages of Using Time and Attendance Software for Janitorial Companies 1. Reduces manual pen & paperwork 2. Increases workplace efficiency 3. Managing multiple customer sites through geo-fencing 4. Simplify staff scheduling 5. Simplify handling time off and absence management 6. Faster payroll processing Six things to consider before buying time and attendance software for cleaning companies 1. Remote access 2. Easy installation 3. Option to create varied staff policies 4. Easy task scheduling 5. Easy streamlining of the payroll process 6. Comprehensive reporting and analytics How Truein time and attendance software can help janitorial and cleaning companies? Conclusion FAQs 1. How is janitorial scheduling software easier to use than manual paperwork? 2. How does GPS help cleaning companies record their employees' time and attendance? Challenges of managing cleaning company employees Manual time tracking through timesheets isn’t ideal for janitorial companies as they are not accurate and reliable. Besides tracking cleaning staff at remote locations, managing their schedule and dealing with high staff turnover is another challenge. Janitorial and cleaning businesses also employ many temporary and part-time workers and it can be demanding to manage contractual workers. It becomes even more complicated when contract employees work remotely, as it is difficult to ensure they are where they are supposed to be and their hours are accurately recorded. This is why janitorial scheduling software is essential for tracking, analyzing, and optimizing business operations. Let’s explore the benefits of janitorial time and attendance software in detail. Advantages of Using Time and Attendance Software for Janitorial Companies 1. Reduces manual pen & paperwork Manual time and attendance keeping is time-consuming and prone to errors. Furthermore, it produces a lot of paperwork for payroll as managers need to feed data and calculate payable hours manually. Adopting an automated time-tracking solution can eliminate pen and paper. Cleaning staff can use mobile apps to clock in and out. Such automation removes the risk of human error, such as incorrect entries or missing records. Your business becomes more efficient as software saves administrative time that can be better utilized for core business tasks thus increasing productivity. 2. Increases workplace efficiency It saves time as your staff can start working promptly without waiting to punch in or fill timesheets. This reduces idle time at the beginning and end of shifts, allowing employees to be more productive. Janitorial time tracking software provides real-time access to data on employee attendance, making it easier for managers to allocate resources and adjust work schedules as needed. The streamlined operations and minimized downtime enhance the overall efficiency of janitorial companies. 3. Managing multiple customer sites through geo-fencing Geo-fencing technology creates a virtual boundary around each work site. The software automatically records their location and working hours when employees enter or exit these predefined work zones. Managers no longer have to track the location of staff multiple times in real time; the janitorial time tracking app will do it for them. By enforcing the presence of employees at the right location at the right time, geofencing enhances accountability and ensures workers are paid accurately for the actual hours worked at each site. 4. Simplify staff scheduling A janitorial scheduling software simplifies the creation and management of staff schedules, a critical aspect of cleaning businesses. Scheduling features in the software help easily assign shifts, track overtime, and ensure adequate coverage. Furthermore, the software can help map employee availability, skills, and preferences for generating schedules thus eliminating the highly inefficient manual scheduling process. Staff also can apply for leaves and time offs within the system and these reports can be pulled automatically at the end of each day to evaluate workforce efficiency. 5. Simplify handling time off and absence management Your staff can submit time-off requests digitally, and managers can review and approve them within the software. With such automation, the efficiency of leave management improves as there is no paperwork or risk of lost requests. It also monitors time off and absence for each employee, ensuring fair and consistent application of company policies. 6. Faster payroll processing The efficiency and simplification of various aspects of time and attendance recording translates into faster and error-free payroll processing. Janitorial scheduling software like Truein can readily integrate with payroll software, eliminating the need for manual data entry and reconciliation. It reduces payroll processing time and payroll errors. Faster payroll processing ensures that employees are paid accurately and on time, which boosts their morale. For these benefits, you have to make sure you choose the right software for your cleaning business. Here are the factors to consider. Six things to consider before buying time and attendance software for cleaning companies 1. Remote access As cleaning businesses have operations disbursed over multiple remote sites, janitorial time and attendance software must have remote access. A comprehensive time and attendance software for cleaning businesses must offer a user-friendly web or mobile app interface to access real-time data from anywhere. It ensures that managers can manage their workforce far more effectively by monitoring employee attendance, making schedule adjustments, and tracking time remotely. 2. Easy installation The janitorial time tracking app must be easy to install so the cleaning staff can install it on their phones without hassle. The software should also be easily integrated with existing systems, such as payroll or HR management tools. Easy installation minimizes the need for extensive technical support or training. It ensures a smooth transition to the new time and attendance tracking system. 3. Option to create varied staff policies Cleaning companies have diverse staffing needs. A janitorial workforce could include a mix of temporary, part-time, and permanent workers. As these employees are not regulated under the same time and attendance rules, a flexible janitorial time and attendance software can help in creating and applying varied staff policies. Managers can develop policies, including unique pay rates and overtime thresholds, and modify rules easily using the software. 4. Easy task scheduling Task scheduling is crucial for cleaning companies to allocate work appropriately based on a worker’s skills and availability. This is why your chosen software should provide intuitive scheduling features that allow managers to create and adjust task assignments easily. Easy task scheduling ensures the right employees are assigned to the right jobs at the correct times. 5. Easy streamlining of the payroll process The ultimate goal of adopting a janitorial time and attendance software is to improve efficiency and productivity. The software you choose should seamlessly integrate with your payroll system to achieve this. It must enable payroll administrators to export accurate and detailed time and attendance data directly to the payroll software , eliminating the need for manual data entry or reconciliation. Such integration makes payroll processing faster and more accurate, increasing employee satisfaction and compliance with labor laws. 6. Comprehensive reporting and analytics To improve business revenue and profitability, decision-makers need insights into the workforce’s performance and operational efficiency. The time and attendance software should offer a range of customizable reports that provide data on attendance trends, labor costs, and employee productivity. The Analytics capability of the software will help you identify areas for improvement, such as optimizing schedules or reducing overtime expenses. How Truein time and attendance software can help janitorial and cleaning companies? Truein is an innovative janitorial time and attendance software with AI-backed technology. A cloud-based solution, it is easy to deploy at multiple remote sites. Truein’s comprehensive tracking capabilities with GPS geofencing give managers remote access to various sites from a single dashboard. It is a hardware-less solution that is easy to install. A simple app installation is all you need to onboard workers to the new system. It offers policy flexibility and comes with over 70 customizable policy templates. Task scheduling, payroll integration, and robust reporting capabilities are some other features that ensure that Truein aligns with the specific needs and challenges of the cleaning industry. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Time and attendance software are indispensable tools for janitorial and cleaning companies. A comprehensive janitorial time-tracking software can help overcome the challenges of managing the workforce. Furthermore, software offers various benefits, such as simplified scheduling, faster payroll processing, and remote access. FAQs 1. How is janitorial scheduling software easier to use than manual paperwork? Janitorial scheduling software automates the process of creating and managing staff schedules, eliminating the need for pen and paperwork and reducing the time and effort required to create schedules. It also minimizes scheduling errors and allows for quick adjustments when needed. 2. How does GPS help cleaning companies record their employees' time and attendance? When integrated into time and attendance software, GPS technology records employee’s location when they clock-in. This helps track employee’s location and ensures that employees are present at the site when they should be at the right time. GPS helps make time and attendance records accurate. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form