Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Kiosk App Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? No, thats not required. You need to keep it active only during the time of attendance (Clock In / Clock out) Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Kiosk App Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Yes, moblie phone can be used a kiosk device provided it meets the hardware specifications. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form