Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Logistics & Supply Chain Management »  					Supply Chain Issues of 2023 and Possible Solutions Supply Chain Issues of 2023 and Possible Solutions October 8, 2024 Post-COVID-19, every industry is facing challenges, but a sector that experienced unprecedented disruptions in operations is the supply chain. The pandemic highlighted the volatility in the market for logistics and brought forward some unique supply chain issues. In 2023, supply chain issues will be customer-centric. According to Gartner, 62% of leading supply chain companies invest in solutions to improve customer experience rather than cost-cutting. You must know about emerging supply chain problems and solutions to these challenges in the industry. Table of Contents What are supply chain issues? What are the biggest global supply chain issues in 2023? 1. Increased Competition 2. Higher consumer expectations 3. Shortage of skilled workforce 4. Demand forecasting challenges 5. Cybersecurity 6. Climate change 7. Environmental sustainability 8. Increasing costs and material scarcity 9. Transparency and traceability 10. Costing and budgeting The impact of geopolitical factors on the current state of global supply chains Possible solutions to resolve supply chain issues 1. Embrace innovation 2. Hold more inventory and diversify product sources 3. Improve demand forecasting 4. Work on return rates 5. Digitize supply chains Conclusion FAQs 1. How did the supply chain issues start? 2. Will the supply chain improve in 2023? 3. What is the supply chain strategy for 2023? What are supply chain issues? Supply chain issues refer to the challenges and disruptions in the smooth flow of goods and services from suppliers to consumers. These issues can result from various factors, and in recent years, complex factors have converged to create a perfect storm of challenges, causing supply chain issues on a global scale. Let’s look at these challenges and their possible solutions. What are the biggest global supply chain issues in 2023? 1. Increased Competition During the pandemic, supply chain companies had an unpleasant awakening of how much they stand to lose if they are not expanding or utilizing the latest technologies. Today, the race to expand in other markets and the availability of advanced technology is driving up the competition in the market. More players are in the market, forcing businesses to offer competitive pricing while improving the quality of their services and customer experience. The heightened competition is one of the current supply chain issues that demand optimizing efficiency to meet the increased demand. 2. Higher consumer expectations During the pandemic, the rise of next-day delivery services has introduced a behavior change in customers. When offline stores closed due to lockdown, hyper-delivery services became popular, and now, even after the pandemic, most customers expect fast delivery of their orders. Not to mention free shipping is an attractive option. This is why businesses are challenged to manage the rising delivery cost without charging the customers to retain their loyalty and satisfaction. 3. Shortage of skilled workforce The supply chain is labor-intensive, and the skilled workforce shortage remains challenging in 2023. A critical point of contention is the difference in demand for a younger workforce compared to an aging workforce. Younger workers expect a higher work-life balance. Also, many potential workers don’t consider the supply chain lucrative. Companies need more skilled workers in critical areas such as supply chain management, logistics, and operations. The talent competition is high, and companies must focus on adopting technology to reduce the labor manual to attract talent. 4. Demand forecasting challenges Unpredictable consumer behavior and changing marketplace dynamics make it more challenging to map demand forecasting. Such rapidly changing consumer preferences, shopping habits, and expectations significantly impact demand patterns and inventory management. B usinesses have a new supply chain issue to adapt to shifting consumer behavior and adjust their supply chains to meet these changes. 5. Cybersecurity The increased digitization of supply chains in 2023 makes them susceptible to cyber threats such as data breaches and ransomware attacks. Cybersecurity is becoming one of the most essential aspects of supply chain management. Businesses adopting technology to optimize their supply chain management operations should also focus on improving the security of the systems. Cybersecurity vulnerabilities can compromise sensitive information, disrupt operations, and lead to delays in production and distribution. 6. Climate change Climate change is a significant challenge for supply chain management. From being the hottest year ever recorded to extreme climatic disasters, 2023 is a difficult year . Extreme weather events such as rising sea levels and natural disasters have introduced new supply chain challenges as disruption of transportation routes, infrastructure damage, and impact on production facilities are causing delays and interruptions in the flow of goods. 7. Environmental sustainability The climatic disasters in 2023 highlighted the requirement for environmental sustainability in every industry. As the supply chain industry is constantly scrutinized for its carbon footprint and how it impacts the environment, changing regulatory requirements can profoundly impact global supply chains. One of the most significant challenges in supply chain management today is the integration of eco-friendly practices. Businesses are under increasing pressure to not only reduce their carbon footprints but also to meet stringent environmental standards. As consumer demand for sustainable packaging continues to rise, companies are exploring innovative ways to meet these expectations while maintaining operational efficiency. These changes require supply chain companies to make significant operational changes with high-cost implications. 8. Increasing costs and material scarcity The supply chain requires a lot of raw materials and resources. The environmental concerns, geopolitical tensions, and trade disruptions in 2023 are causing severe fluctuations in commodity prices and a shortage of raw materials. Increasing operational cost is causing global supply chain issues, further worsening due to inflation. Businesses need help with increased production costs, which also affects product availability. The inability to secure affordable and reliable sources of essential materials is one of the supply chain bottlenecks that require attention. 9. Transparency and traceability For many years, regulators and consumers have wanted transparency to know about the origin of products, ensure ethical sourcing and traceability of environmental impact. Transparency and traceability remain the current supply chain issues; to meet these requirements while maintaining a competitive edge, companies must invest in technology solutions that enable end-to-end visibility and real-time traceability in the supply chains. 10. Costing and budgeting Rising inflation, geopolitical changes, and rising competition continuously increase operating costs for supply chain companies. Increasing fuel and energy prices and strict regulations around environmental regulations are raising input costs for companies. However, customers expect faster delivery at a lower cost, decreasing company revenue. This is a dual challenge that logistics companies need to face in 2023. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account The impact of geopolitical factors on the current state of global supply chains Supply chain issues in 2023 are compounded by unprecedented geopolitical uncertainty. According to SAP , most retailers hold political uncertainty as one of the main reasons for current supply chain issues. The Russia-Ukraine conflict has a profound impact on the global supply chains. As one of the leading suppliers of gas and petroleum, Russia has a high impact on global energy prices. Due to the conflict with Ukraine, Russia faces sanctions from several countries, resulting in high energy and fuel costs. Also, restricting air freight transportation across Europe and Asia due to the closing of Russian air space has caused increased traffic in northern European ports. Also, the disruptions to rail freight between China and Europe have affected the movement of products. Also, the strained US-China relationship over China’s aggressive approach towards Taiwan threatens global supply chains, as China accounts for about 30% of global manufacturing output . Possible solutions to resolve supply chain issues 1. Embrace innovation Technology has always helped businesses overcome challenges. In 2023, companies need to further their investment in modern technology to mitigate the risks of supply chain issues. Integrating technological innovations like artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), and blockchain into supply chain management can profoundly affect supply chain visibility and efficiency. AI-powered analytics can significantly assist with real-time insights to forecast demand patterns and help optimize inventory levels . IoT solutions can track goods in transit, monitor conditions, and predict maintenance needs. Blockchain technology is trusted for traceability and transparency in supply chain operations. Furthermore, Truein can be instrumental in supply chain workforce management. Its AI-powered attendance management and workforce attendance tracking can help managers improve schedules, enhance productivity, and reduce labor costs. Truei n can be deployed through smartphones as a hardware-less solution, making it a highly cost-effective solution for logistics workforce management. 2. Hold more inventory and diversify product sources One effective way to tackle the supply chain crisis is to keep extra inventory. Businesses now hold more inventory than before because it makes it easier to meet customer needs. You have to research and find what’s the right stock for you. You want to stay within your budget, as it will increase storage costs. Data forecasting can help to predict the demand, and you can hold more inventory accordingly. Also, you cannot rely on a few product sources. As supply chain issues can cause disruption anytime, you need to have alternative sources to ensure a consistent flow of products to meet the market demand. 3. Improve demand forecasting Demand forecasting is an excellent solution to solve the challenges of supply chain management. Supply chain companies and businesses can estimate demand by leveraging advanced analytics and data-driven forecasting models. You should use historical data, market trends, and external factors to analyze the demand behavior in your market and make informed decisions about production, inventory levels, and resource allocation. 4. Work on return rates Product returns have a significant on the supply chain. Customers want their product returns handled as efficiently as product delivery. This is why reverse logistics processes are crucial. To maximize returned goods’ value, businesses must implement clear return policies and streamline return processes. Furthermore, assess returned items to ensure you can reduce product returns and the associated costs. 5. Digitize supply chains Digitization of supply chain processes is a reliable solution for delivery and operational costs issues. By implementing end-to-end digital solutions, businesses can enhance visibility, communication, and collaboration among supply chain partners. Modern supply chain management digital platforms enable real-time tracking, data sharing, and rapid response to changes, helping to streamline operations and reduce manual errors. Conclusion The supply chain issues today are multi-faceted and require an integrated approach combining technological innovation, strategic diversification, and adaptive planning. The top 10 supply chain problems listed here will persist in 2023 and beyond. Businesses need to embrace innovation, analytics, and software solutions to navigate the challenges of supply chain management and ensure resilience in the face of uncertainties. FAQs 1. How did the supply chain issues start? There is no one factor for the supply chain shortages businesses face today. These issues can be attributed to geopolitical tensions, globalization, increased competition, and changing consumer behaviors. 2. Will the supply chain improve in 2023? The challenges mentioned will persist in 2023, and the improvements will depend on how effectively strategies to enhance resilience, agility, and collaboration are implemented. 3. What is the supply chain strategy for 2023? The supply chain strategy for 2023 must involve diversifying sourcing, embracing digital innovations, utilizing forecasting, and building flexibility to navigate various disruptions and uncertainties. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 08, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 08, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 08, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 08, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 08, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Manufacturing Industry HR Challenges and Possible Solutions Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Headcount Planning and Forecasting: How To Create One? Headcount Planning and Forecasting: How To Create One? May 24, 2024 The financial success of any enterprise is intricately tied to the caliber and efficiency of its workforce. Every organization depends on its workforce for productivity, revenue, and efficiency. Adequate staffing, avoiding both overstaffing and understaffing, plays a pivotal role in influencing overall business productivity. Also known as workforce planning, headcount forecasting is a strategic process companies use to predict and manage their workforce needs. It is how you plan your organization’s future needs by doing a headcount analysis and determining where to invest in improvements to meet the existing and new business goals. Headcount planning helps anticipate staffing levels with business demands thus preventing overstaffing or understaffing scenarios. This article underlines how accurate headcount planning and forecasting can assist in optimizing human resources and ensure smooth operations. Table of Contents How Can Organizations Do Headcount Planning? Methods of Headcount Forecasting 1. Headcount Demand Forecasting 2. Headcount Supply Forecasting 3. Recruitment Sales Forecasting Steps to generate a successful headcount plan 1. Figure out business challenges 2. Organize data for Analysis and Insights 3. Analyze data and teams 4. Make your forecasting data agile & Inclusive 5. Use a headcount planning software Four benefits of using headcount forecasting 1. Improved financial planning 2. Maximized employee satisfaction & productivity 3. Hiring the right staff 4. Improves Compliance Regulation How can Truein help in headcount planning and forecasting? Conclusion FAQs 1. What happens if we have poor headcount forecasting? 2. Who is responsible for headcount planning? How Can Organizations Do Headcount Planning? There are 3 primary methods via which organizations can approach the headcount planning process. These are Headcount Demand Forecasting, Headcount Supply Forecasting and Recruitment Sales Forecasting. Lets get into these methods one by one. Methods of Headcount Forecasting 1. Headcount Demand Forecasting One of the most efficient ways to headcount projections is to closely estimate the demand for workers and the skills in the organization. Headcount demand forecasting can de quantitative or qualitative, depending on your approach. Under quantitative headcount forecasting, the companies observe the workload and workforce data to anticipate the number of workers the business needs at any given time. This method utilizes reports from across departments, such as productivity reports, sales forecasts, and expansion plans. Qualitative forecasting is essential for determining workforce’s skills, interests, and aspirations are aligned with the organization’s future goals. 2. Headcount Supply Forecasting Just as with any other resource in the company, human resources must also have a consistent supply to meet the demand. That’s why headcount supply forecasting is also an essential aspect of workforce management, as it estimates the supply of human resources considering internal and external inventory. We must consider internal factors for headcount supply forecasting, including analyzing promotions, transfers, retired employees, etc. In contrast, external human resources supply forecasting depends on the labor market and hiring strategies. 3. Recruitment Sales Forecasting After demand and supply forecasting, the final method in headcount planning and forecasting is recruitment sales forecasting which identifies any gaps between the requirements in the human resources and the hiring strategy. This is essential to ensure skillful and right people are recruited. Now that you understand the methods of headcount planning, you are ready to create your forecasting model. There is no fixed headcount forecasting formula, as several variables differ from business to business. However, here are the concrete steps for a successful headcount planning process. Steps to generate a successful headcount plan 1. Figure out business challenges First, you must evaluate the organization’s strategic goals and challenges that impact workforce needs. If you are not sure how to identify the business challenges, ask some critical questions: How can you utilize technology to manage the workforce? How your competitor’s offerings and hiring strategies have changed? How your end customer requirements are evolving, and what can you do to meet these expectations? Are the regulatory changes expected to challenge your business? What changes do you need to meet your future growth goals? 2. Organize data for Analysis and Insights You must generate insights based on critical business operation data analysis for headcount planning. You must gather and organize relevant data, such as historical headcount and turnover rates. Depending on your business operations, there will be several data points such as revenue goals, budget, projected spending, position requirements, number of employees, employee skills ratings, employee salary, etc. Your headcount planning process will be affected by such data points. 3. Analyze data and teams The data you capture in the above step, along with the individual team structure, should be analyzed to make decisions regarding workforce management. Analysis at this step help managers identify the human resource requirements, such as ensuring enough budget is available to support the workforce, proactively identifying hiring challenges, revealing any skill gap issues, and monitoring staff retention in different departments. Also, this step involves ensuring that all managers have appropriate resources to manage their teams to perform their duties effectively. 4. Make your forecasting data agile & Inclusive The end goal of a headcount forecasting model is to ensure that the organization has the right number of employees with the right skill at the right position. This is why a flexible and adaptable forecasting model must be in place that accommodates changing business conditions. If your approach is agile, iterative, and inclusive, you can use the same headcount planning and forecasting model for several years. Just assess your headcount forecasting strategy regularly to know what’s working and what adjustments are required. If implemented correctly, headcount planning can facilitate the growth and development of an organization. 5. Use a headcount planning software Rather than using spreadsheets, a headcount planning software can help manage headcount effectively. A headcount planning tool is accessible to all key stakeholders of the workforce planning department. HR, Finance, Talent and budget owners i.e. team leads and hiring managers can easily use this tool. As headcount is one of the biggest expenses of any organization, one must invest in a headcount planning software like workday, ChartHop, etc. Here are some of the benefits of utilizing headcount forecasting for your business. Four benefits of using headcount forecasting 1. Improved financial planning Headcount forecasting is one of the best cost-saving methods for any business. Think about it, how useful it will be if the company knows what roles in which department need new staff is required. Also, proper headcount planning and forecasting help you understand the salary and compensation changes per the business goals. You can significantly minimize the friction in project management as departmental budgets are handled more effectively. Financial troubles are one of the significant reasons why projects are delayed; with proper headcount forecasting this risk can be mitigated. 2. Maximized employee satisfaction & productivity Managing shifts becomes much easier when you clearly view the workload and workforce. With headcount forecasting, you can balance the human capital with business goals to create a healthy work-life balance for workers. It will keep them engaged, and the retention rate will increase. Also, it results in higher employee satisfaction as they can give their best at work, boosting their morale. Optimal headcount also helps manage a well-rested workforce. Employees have the right amount of workload, which makes them more productive. Companies can compensate existing employees better rather than spend on hiring more workers. 3. Hiring the right staff With a suitable headcount planning model, you can ensure the hiring requirements and growth strategy are distinct. Forecasting provides visibility of the current workforce, workload, and future change projections. This data can be used to hire the right staff for the positions or roles expected to open in any department. It also helps to understand what skills will be required for these roles ensuring that the right talent is available within the internal candidate pool to meet the requirements when they arise. 4. Improves Compliance Regulation Business operations have several challenges, but the most complications arise from compliance regulations. With so many protocols, mandates, rules, and procedures, you need headcount planning to proactively know what legal hurdles a business can face in its growth path. Headcount planning helps deal with issues related to minimum wages, overtime benefits, severance packages, etc. These requirements are under labor rules and regulations that every organization must adhere to mandatorily. How can Truein help in headcount planning and forecasting? Truein is a complete attendance and time-tracking software that can facilitate headcount planning. Its AI-backed algorithms entirely automate workforce attendance management. Truein is a hardware-less face recognition attendance software that can prevent time theft activities like buddy punching. It makes headcount forecasting easier by providing insightful reports regarding attendance, leave, overtime, etc. The data plays an essential role in productivity evaluation and forecasting demand for the workforce. By offering all the workforce attendance and time management data in one place, Truein assists in decision-making, such as headcount budgets and work schedules. Learn more about Truein here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Headcount forecasting is essential for organizations to create a winning strategy for business growth without ignoring the needs of employees. There are three main methods of the headcount planning process that organizations can use for efficient headcount implementation. Without proper headcount planning, no business can meet its operation goals, project growth prospects, or expand to new markets. That’s why you need a comprehensive headcount forecasting methods which are regularly assessed and updated. FAQs 1. What happens if we have poor headcount forecasting? Poor headcount forecasting can wreak havoc for any organization as it can harm its operations, financial health, and employee morale. It results in understaffing, and there needs to be more employees to meet workload demands. It increases workloads for existing staff, causing burnout and productivity issues. Poor headcount forecasting can cause overstaffing, straining resources, increase labor costs, and hinder operational efficiency. 2. Who is responsible for headcount planning? No one department or person is responsible for headcount planning, and it is a collaborative effort involving multiple departments and roles within an organization. Typically, the main ones in headcount planning are human resources, department heads and managers, finance teams, senior leaders, IT and tech support teams. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Forecasting - Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form