Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization June 25, 2024 An integral part of day-to-day business operation, leave management might appear to be a simple task. Indeed, it is if you have only a few employees. As more people join your team, leave management gets painstaking and ultimately deviously complicated when more people join in. This is why a leave management system is a worthwhile addition to your business tool to manage risks and avoid costs. In this article, we will cover all aspects of an employee leave management system so you can benefit your business as well. Table of Contents What is an employee leave management system? Why leave management is important? 6 Advantages Of Using A Leave Management System 1. Significantly less paperwork 2. Auto-update leave balance 3. Real-time information and updates 4. Save the time of administration 5. Transparent and accurate 6. Easily Manage Holidays Truein: An Attendance System With Leave Management Solution What is an employee leave management system? Leave management is more than just keeping the count of days an employee has taken leave of absence. An online leave management system is a tool to keep track of types of leaves -stipulated, medical, casual. Some leaves are planned, some are unplanned but monitoring leaves for all employees is needed for the proper functioning of the organization. A leave management system is a comprehensive system that can entirely automate the HR task of tracking leaves consumed by employees. Employees can easily put in an application for leave along with supporting documents. Furthermore, a leave management system can be made an integral part of the whole HR Management System such that complete employee management can be done from a single dashboard including payroll, attendance, rosters, etc. There are two types of leave management system – A manual leave management system where a physical log book is maintained and employees sign in & sign out at the start and end of day. This is tallied manually at the end of the month to calculate the number of leaves that an employee has taken. The process is cumbersome and far more prone to errors. The second is an automated leave management system where a biometric such as fingerprint or face recognition is utilized and the employee in and out times are automatically logged in & stored on the cloud. Leave reports can be automatically generated at the end of each day/month and given its efficiency, accuracy & ease of use, increasingly organizations are replacing manual leave management systems with automated leave management system . Why leave management is important? Employee leave management system is important to enforce a leave policy at the workplace. It helps with record-keeping to allow organizations to effectively offer benefits like paid leaves. Modern-day face recognition based attendance system like Truein can keep employee leave stats so they are aware of leave balance and entitlements right on their mobile screens. Such systems also help companies stay compliant and get a holistic view of the trends in leaves and attendance through reporting and analytics. Essentially, a leave management system can help you take corrective or preventive measures when needed. Furthermore, the leave management system helps stop revenue leaks. Without a maintained and updated leave record, companies can end up paying for the absences. It also helps avoid confrontations between employees and the employer benefiting the brand image. For smooth business functioning, it is important to ensure that the employees taking leaves do not become a reason for business losses. The best way to achieve this is to check the rooster to approve or reject a leave after evaluating the impact on the work. 6 Advantages Of Using A Leave Management System 1. Significantly less paperwork One of the benefits of using software tools is the reduction of dull and repetitive tasks. An online leave management system offers integration and automation that significantly reduces the amount of paperwork. A paper trail of leave management is cumbersome as well as a deterrent to the environment. Printing and filling forms is a headache for employees and record keeping of such files is painstaking for employers. With a few clicks, the entire process of leave application till approval is completed when you have an employee leave management system at work. 2. Auto-update leave balance There is no point in buying an HR management software if HR staff has to compute and update leave data manually. With the right attendance management system like Truein, the entire process of tracking leave history and accessibility to the managers and employees is automated. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 3. Real-time information and updates When approving leaves or applying for leaves it is important to have information if it is the right time to approve or apply for a leave. Unless there is a leave management system that provides information in real-time, it is going to be difficult. Also, outdated information can result in conflicts between the managers and employees because it can cause rejection of applications of employees who need a vacation. Real-time updates are also important to avoid situations where too many permissions are granted resulting in understaffing. 4. Save the time of administration The benefits of a leave management system for administration are equally important. The total elimination of repetitive tasks makes leave management a lot faster and more convenient. Modern leave management systems can easily be integrated with other office tools. Such a level of automation saves a lot of time for administration and offers a more comprehensive ecosystem for employee management. 5. Transparent and accurate The online leave management system provides a comprehensive view of all leaves, either planned or unplanned in a single dashboard. For employers, it provides a tool to have accurate data on employees abusing leave policies or underusing their vacations. This transparency helps spot productivity leaks and tackle problems related to absenteeism. 6. Easily Manage Holidays An automated leave management system can help employers to manage the holiday and vacations of their employees more efficiently. With the help of the leave management system, your employees will be able to mark any leave of absence like holidays, sick leave , etc. Moreover, your employees will have access to their holiday leave at any moment. Truein: An Attendance System With Leave Management Solution Truein is a comprehensive attendance system designed to help organizations automate employee attendance management entirely. A cloud-based attendance system , Truein automatically uploads and updates leave data without any need for human intervention. The data is available for the employees and employers alike. A hardware-less tool, Truein makes it possible for employees to view their leave data on their mobiles. They have access to a dashboard to check the used and unused leaves. For employers, it offers many capabilities such as the ability to add different leave policies and update existing ones. If your company is still using legacy methods for leave management it is high time to switch to Truein to automate and accurately track leave. Schedule a free demo today and try a comprehensive leave management solution that can help to record and automate leave management in your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization 8 Benefits Of Automated Time And Attendance Systems Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Fraud »  					4 Different Types Of Time Theft and 5 Ways To Prevent It? 4 Different Types Of Time Theft and 5 Ways To Prevent It? June 25, 2024 A successful business is built on many pillars, but most important of all is a reliable workforce. If you can trust your employees with respecting the rules at the workplace, it becomes easier to focus on other aspects of business growth. However, time theft can be a real nuisance if not dealt with. According to several studies, time theft is one of the biggest reasons for the loss in business. A study estimates that most U.S. companies lose 20% of every dollar earned because of employee time theft . The most widely implemented scrutiny method to prevent employees from stealing business property is installing CCTV cameras on the premises. However, this doesn’t work when employees are doctoring timesheets or punching in for a colleague . You will be surprised to know that 30% of business failures are caused by some sort of employee theft or embezzlement. While one may argue that time theft is not the same as the removal of physical property, it nonetheless results in losses as it escalates labour costs and also wastes financial resources. If you are struggling with the same issue and want to put an end to employee time theft, it is recommended that you start by recognizing how time theft can take place. Table of Contents 4 Different Types of Time Theft 1. Buddy Punching 2. Extended Breaks 3. Time Clock Theft 4. Excessive personal time How to prevent time theft 1. Revise or Establish Time Theft Policies 2. Use tech to enhance accountability 3. Develop employee morale 4. Be realistic with expectations of your staff 5. Employ software to prevent employee time theft FAQs About Employee Time Theft Is employee time theft illegal? Is time theft common? 4 Different Types of Time Theft Simply put, time theft is when employees are not working for the hours they are paid for. Although, once in a while it is acceptable, if it is a regular practice, it amounts to time theft. According to a study, an average employee steals 4.5 hours a week from their employer , that’s a total of 6 work weeks every year. The most common ways in which employees do time theft are: 1. Buddy Punching Buddy punching is when an employee punches into the time clock for a colleague if they are running late or leave early. It is the easiest way to trick the attendance system into thinking that the employee worked for the full day. As per an American Payroll Association study, more than 75% of companies lose money due to the practice of buddy punching. 2. Extended Breaks Arguably, most innocent-looking time theft is when employees take too long breaks. While it is known that taking regular breaks keeps the productivity high in employees, but it must be closely monitored. Turning a 60-minute lunch break into a 75-minute break or extending 15-minute breaks by adding 5 minutes extra might not seem too drastic but when done consistently, the minutes add up pretty quickly. To avoid this issue you should implement a lunch break policy in your organization. For instance, smoke breaks have proved to be costly for companies. A study found that an average smoker takes roughly 6 days of smoke breaks a year, and this is only an average figure. For some industries, it adds up to 20 days a year. 3. Time Clock Theft Time clock theft is when an employee manipulates or lies about the time they work for. Often, employees do not do it with the wrong intention and round up their hours to make it easier for payroll to calculate the work hours, however a few minutes every day start to add up over weeks or a month. But some employees purposefully commit time theft. They can do it by simply asking their work buddy to clock in for them regularly. Others might intentionally not clock in and then lie about it later on. Another tricky practice is to clock in before they start working on the floor. Employees might enter the building, but they aren’t working when they should be. 4. Excessive personal time Working hours are more productive when employees do not feel bound or restrictive. This is why it is a positive perk to allow employees to take a personal call or reply to a personal email when emergencies happen. However, when an employee starts to abuse the system and consistently takes excessive personal time it moves into the time theft category. The most common instance of excessive personal time is when an employee runs their own business while at work. It can be anything, replying to customer emails or reaching out to them on social media platforms. How to prevent time theft Now that you are aware of how time theft is usually committed by employees and how disastrous it can be for your business, it is time to nip the evil in the bud. 1. Revise or Establish Time Theft Policies Do you have clear time theft policies in place? If you do, when was the last time you reviewed the policies? The time theft policies must be strategically framed such that your employees do not feel any unnecessary compulsion. Be aware of what you are asking of your employees. Make sure the policies are relevant and understandable. It is also important to adhere to employment standards in time theft policies. Time theft policies that are too restrictive will make your employees feel unfair and ultimately result in a low rate of compliance. Implementing time theft policies that are employee-friendly can make a huge difference in your company’s morale. 2. Use tech to enhance accountability Punch clocks and manual attendance registers are not going to make an impact and resolve the issue of time theft. You need to upgrade to more reliable attendance solutions like biometric systems. The fingerprint attendance system is the most commonly used biometric system that has replaced card swiping methods. However, in recent years, the pandemic has highlighted the need for systems that minimize human contact. Facial recognition attendance systems provide a solution to this issue. Attendance systems like Truein work on AI algorithms that allow employees to use their smartphones to clock in with face recognition. 3. Develop employee morale When you increase employee morale their engagement and productivity increase simultaneously. It also makes employees more loyal to the organization. Often employee productivity decreases when workers see other employees getting away with time theft. Implementing time theft policies and using advanced attendance systems will curb such getaways, but what about those who are honest with their work hours? Rewarding and recognizing such employees will encourage employee morale. Furthermore, you must try to create an environment of transparency, honesty, and trust. This will prevent time theft. 4. Be realistic with expectations of your staff There lies a big difference between encouraging your workers to boost productivity and overworking them. Ensure that you are setting up realistic goals to be achieved by employees including managers. If you set up unrealistic expectations that lead to break time getting cut or over time, your employees will start looking for ways to compensate for lost time. This is something you will not want. Be open about your expectations with your employees and communicate what is permitted during work hours and whatnot. 5. Employ software to prevent employee time theft No employee wants to manually put in work time or manage attendance sheets. You should work on making attendance systems less tedious. Smart attendance systems like Truein streamline the overall process and also reduce the cost incurred in hiring the human resource to manage attendance records. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account FAQs About Employee Time Theft Is employee time theft illegal? While no legal policies are governing how the instances of time thefts must be dealt with, but companies have their policies. In some cases, time theft makes for the grounds for suspending an employee. Is time theft common? Yes. According to a study, 75% of employees do time theft at least once . Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					How Biometric Attendance System Can Benefit Retail Stores? How Biometric Attendance System Can Benefit Retail Stores? June 25, 2024 The retail industry is one of the most dynamic sectors employing a large number of people. From customer representatives to order fulfilment executives, retail stores require employees to be distributed over a large area. This requirement poses challenges such as attendance maintenance of all employees & several other compliance issues . Most retail brands have their store’s distributed over a large geographical network, employing a varying number of people. While the traditional attendance system like card punching machines offer a solution that is not efficient at protecting against problems like buddy punching . To overcome these challenges, the retail market is embracing modern-day biometric attendance systems . As these attendance systems allow for faster, secure and efficient business operations, they can benefit any retail store. If you still haven’t adopted a biometric attendance system for retail, you must have your questions and doubts about their effectiveness. In the ear of technological sophistication, you don’t have to settle for less efficient and legacy systems. This article is all about explaining the advantages of biometric attendance system for retail stores. Table of Contents Biometric Attendance System For Retail Industry Why your retail business needs a biometric attendance system? 1. Higher level of accuracy 2. Higher Productivity 3. Track Employees Easily 4. Manage flexible work schedules easily 5. Happy employees 6. Truein biometric attendance system can help Why use Truein Touchless Face Recognition Attendance System? 1. No additional hardware requirement 2. User-friendly interface 3. Cloud-based attendance system 4. GPS and Geo fencing attendance 5. Give different roles to different users 6. Flexibility to have different policies for different stores 7. Audit Punching Conclusion Biometric Attendance System For Retail Industry Biometric attendance systems have witnessed a huge demand from the retail industry for several reasons. From improving the accuracy of attendance management to boosting the productivity of employees, these systems are truly game-changers. At present, there are three main types of biometric attendance systems available for retail stores. Fingerprint Technology For Retail Industry : The fingerprint recognition system recognise the ridges and valleys (minutiae) on the surface of the finger to verify the identity of the person but sometimes it take multiple attempts to scan the fingerprint because of cuts and sweat on the fingers. Fingerprint recognition systems are useful and effective against time theft, but in the post-pandemic era, the focus is on minimising contact. As such these systems suffer a drawback. Eye Recognition Systems : As an alternative, the retail industry has the option to employ eye recognition systems for attendance marking. These systems have two modes of operation at the core. Some systems use iris recognition to identify an individual while others rely on retina recognition (they raise the patterns of veins in the back of the eye to identify an individual). Problem arises from their implementation as they require dedicated hardware installation and it is expensive as compared to other biometric attendance system. Face Recognition Systems : The best biometric attendance system for retail, a face recognition system eliminates the need for contact to mark attendance and it is more accurate than other type of biometric attendance system. Such attendance systems analyse the facial patterns by using Artificial Intelligence to identify an individual. Why your retail business needs a biometric attendance system? As a retail business owner or store manager, your time is best invested in mentoring and training your staff rather than wasting it juggling personnel to fit open shifts, keeping track of employee productivity and scheduling working shifts from scratch. By adopting a retail time and attendance software , you can free up a lot of time that can be invested in interacting with your customers and improving your business. With biometric attendance systems like the one offered by Truein, any outlet, wholesale or factory store can considerably reduce the time spent on scheduling and marking attendance. Such software can also drastically improve your workforce efficiency, reduce labour costs and optimise staff planning. This is not only beneficial for you as a business owner, but also benefit your employees to have a better work-life balance. 1. Higher level of accuracy Manually recording attendance and time leave scope for errors and inaccuracies. Even, employees are found to log their attendance timing wrong on purpose (time theft). The legacy attendance systems like card punching machines are also susceptible to such behaviour from employees. However, when you use a biometric attendance system you do away with such errors eliminating any possibility of time theft. Furthermore, such systems allow employees to monitor their own time, work schedules and appointments online via their smartphones or other devices. As the entire attendance system is cohesive, any schedule changes are updated live for all employees. 2. Higher Productivity Retail stores with a lesser number of employees can manage with less efficient attendance systems, but when you have a larger workforce, it can be a problem. At the end of the day, if employees have to manually enter time into the payroll software or you have to gather up time cards, it puts in an enormous amount of effort, not to mention a lot of time wasted. With a biometric attendance system, you can cut attendance marking and payroll processing tasks from hours down to minutes. As retail employees have a scheduling app, they do not have to wait for their turn to mark attendance. 3. Track Employees Easily Retail stores require employees to be scattered over a large place which makes it difficult to track employees. With biometric attendance systems, you can easily track field-based and remote employees when they clock in/out using systems or mobile devices with GPS tracking. As the software can track the GPS location of mobile devices, you do not have to invest in any additional hardware. You can put up geofencing to prevent time theft and mandate employees to be within a defined distance to be able to clock in. Furthermore, face recognition attendance systems use facial features to verify and record time, hence employees cannot game the attendance system through buddy punching. 4. Manage flexible work schedules easily A retail business has requirements beyond just storekeeping. There is logistics, inventory and security involved. This is why the retail industry employs part-time, full-time and contract employees . The clocking options vary depending on the type of employee. The modern-day attendance management software allows managers to deploy and monitor employees regardless of where they are working from or what type of schedule they are on. This deletes a lot of overhead and makes it infinitely easier to manage flexible work schedules and allot shifts to employees easily. 5. Happy employees A biometric attendance system not only benefits businesses but also helps employees to be paid accurately on time. All the human error that occurs when timesheets are filled out manually is eliminated. The attendance is logged accurately and updated in the system that makes payroll processing a lot easier. At the end of the day, it ultimately results in happy employees who are paid for their hard work without any delay. There are already several biometric attendance systems for retail stores available offered by different manufacturers, but Truein stands apart. 6. Truein biometric attendance system can help Truein offers the most advanced Touchless Face recognition Attendance system on the market. The biometric attendance system they offer is based on artificial intelligence that can be implemented by any retail store without requiring any complicated hardware. Why use Truein Touchless Face Recognition Attendance System? Whether you run a small-scale retail store or own a franchise employing dozens of people, Truein is offering an easy way of attendance management. 1. No additional hardware requirement Truein time and attendance management software can be deployed out of the box. As it is a mobile-based attendance system and the software works with smartphones and tablets, there is no need for additional hardware. It saves a lot of cost and time to upgrade the attendance system of your retail business. 2. User-friendly interface The software is designed to be user-friendly irrespective of the device it is accessed from. With no complicated steps or manual actions involved, your employees will easily adapt to Truein, requiring minimal or no orientation. 3. Cloud-based attendance system Truein stores the attendance data on the cloud, enabling anyone to access the employees’ data from any location using their verified devices. The HR managers can easily upload employee data in bulk using spreadsheets that make it a lot easier and efficient to manage organization-wide attendance data. 4. GPS and Geo fencing attendance The attendance system comes with GPS and Geo-fencing technology , allowing you to mark attendance only from approved locations. Truein features selfie-based geo-fencing making it possible for employers to mark attendance from their mobile phones. It is a perfect solution for retail shop staff and contract workers . 5. Give different roles to different users User-role management is possible with this biometric attendance system. You can assign different access to different users, based on their employment type and management position. 6. Flexibility to have different policies for different stores If your retail business has different policies for different stores, still you can store them in the central database and customise them as per the requirement of individual stores. 7. Audit Punching A highly useful feature of the Truein biometric attendance system is its audit punching capability. This feature randomly generates a punch notification for a random employee to check the location of the employee. This is an excellent verification option to eliminate time theft. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion No matter how many stores make up your retail business or the number of employees you have, using a reliable biometric attendance system can help you avoid situations that cost you money. Such systems can eradicate time theft, improve business productivity and make attendance management highly accurate, thereby improving business as well as employee satisfaction. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Electronic Attendance System vs Hardware less Attendance System Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? Biometric Attendance Systems | Revolutionizing Workforce Management in the Middle East Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form