Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein GPS Based Geofenced Attendance System for Employee Tracking Attendance and Timesheet Solution for your Distributed, On-Field, and On-Premise Workforce Schedule a Free Demo! Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Clock In/Out at Multiple Locations With Truein's GPS geofenced based attendance solution, roaming or field staff can mark attendance at one or more approved locations. Multiple locations are traceable with time and location stamps. Eliminates any confusion regarding attendance or payroll processing. Geofence Specific Work Sites Geofencing ensures the staff clocks in only at specific locations and not when they are out of range. Centralized dashboard offers a real-time view of the clock-ins and the staff’s work location. No Internet or Poor Connectivity? GPS Tracking Still Works! Staff can clock In/Out with their GPS location even without the internet, and you can track their attendance. No more buddy punching or time theft in the offline mode. Truein automatically syncs data once the internet is back. No More Buddy Punching Geofencing and face recognition eliminate buddy punching and time theft. Truein’s AI-powered face recognition attendance system provides practically 100% robust and accurate attendance capturing. Staff can clock in with a selfie or through the kiosk only at designated worksites. Multiple Self-Serve Features to Empower Your Staff The staff can apply for regularization of their attendance, view leave history, apply for leaves, check leave status, view the shift allocated, and more using Truein GPS based attendance app. Managers canapprove leaves from the app. Automated Policies and Reports Set late marks, half-day, overtime, shift timings, and other policies right within Truein and keep a close watch with real-time reports. Export detailed spreadsheets for compensation and other calculations. Get daily and monthly reports directly from the app in a format of your choice. That's not all! Truein offers much more! Time off (Leave) Management Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with Payroll HRMS Web dashboard Clock in reminders Shift Scheduling Real-Time Notifications Admin or Supervisor View Detailed Attendance Reports Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Frequently Asked Questions How does the tool integrate with our existing HR and payroll systems? Truein can be easily integrated with any 3rd party or in-house HR/payroll software via API integration. What is the accuracy of the geofencing feature, and can it be customized for various job sites? The geofencing feature boasts accuracy similar to that of Google Maps, ensuring reliable performance. You can also easily customize the geofencing settings for various job sites. How does the system handle employees working near the boundaries of a geofenced area to prevent false clock-ins or outs? The system uses GPS to accurately track the clock-ins and outs. We recommend that you keep the minimum radius of 20 meters while setting up the geofencing for better results. You can adjust the ‘location pin’ accurately at the required clock in location. How accurate and secure is the face recognition feature, especially in varying environmental conditions? The face recognition feature is very accurate and secure with 95% accuracy. It works well in different environments including varying lighting conditions and can even recognize faces with specs and masks. What measures are in place to protect employee privacy and comply with data protection regulations? Truein's enterprise-grade cloud infrastructure with stringent security and privacy protocols ensures the security of your data. We place a high priority on safeguarding privacy and ensuring compliance with data protection regulations. Truein offers organizations the option to seek consent for GPS-based attendance and face recognition authentication. Moreover, our platform includes a feature where face records are used solely for recognition purposes and are not stored in the database, thus prioritizing user privacy. The data is owned by the customer organization. For further information, you may refer to our privacy policy . Is there a mobile app available for both Android and iOS platforms, and what features are accessible through the app? Yes, our Truein User and Kiosk app is available in both Android and Platform. You can easily clock in or out, check reports, receive notifications, apply for leaves, and access other employee self-service (ESS) features through the app. What types of reports can be generated, and can they be customized to meet specific needs? You can generate a variety of customizable reports tailored to your organization's requirements and format preferences. These reports may include daily, monthly, leave, contractor agency, regularization, and latecomer reports, among others. How can the tool help in analyzing workforce productivity and identifying areas for improvement? You can generate detailed multiple reports on attendance, jobs/tasks, and leave patterns, helping identify trends and areas for improvement. With real-time data on employee activities, organizations can monitor productivity levels and make informed decisions to optimize performance. What level of technical support is offered, and is there 24/7 access for urgent issues? Truein provides 24/5 support through multiple channels, including phone, chat, email, or log a ticket, urgent issues are promptly attended to ensure minimal disruption to your operations. Moreover, we offer training videos, user guides, and FAQs for convenient self-service support. Does Truein offer training for managers and employees to ensure smooth implementation and adoption? Yes, we provide training sessions to managers and admins to facilitate a smooth implementation and adoption process. These sessions cover various aspects of using the platform effectively. Additionally, we can conduct multiple training sessions to accommodate changes in your personnel. How customizable is the tool in terms of setting up different access levels, alerts, and notifications according to specific managerial needs? Truein is highly customizable, allowing for the setup of various access levels, alerts, and notifications tailored to specific managerial needs. You can set the custom policies based on roles, sites, departments, designation or staff categories. This flexibility ensures that each user has access to the relevant information and receives timely updates as required. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Staff Attendance System for Contract Workers Track even temporary workers. Fast onsite onboarding, tamper-proof contract labor attendance system. No more time theft Contract workers may swipe the ID cards of other workers or sign on their behalf. Faded fingerprints result in fingerprint-based attendance systems failing to mark attendance. With face clock In, buddy punching is near impossible. Fast onboarding With Truein's staff attendance system, companies can save time and money invested on staff ID cards or capturing thumbprints. Contract workers can onboard themselves with a single selfie which is a huge relief to HRs, especially when workers change daily. Multiple reports with OT calculations No more manual tracking of attendance. You don’t have to spend hours in reconciliation at month end. Based on the first-in and last-out rule or any other configuration, you can get over-time and other calculations done automatically through analytics and reports. Shift Scheduling You can allocate shifts, which can be general, day, or night, in bulk for the entire organization or individually for each staff member. Alternatively, you can have a flexible policy, wherein the shift can get automatically allocated based on the in and out time We offer practical features Offline mode Govt ID capture Attendance in bus (Geofenced) Blacklist or Auto-deactivate Admin or Supervisor View All sites global consolidated view Time off (Leave) Management Job mapping Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Blogs Effective Attendance Management: Utilizing Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers How to Reduce Labor Costs – Maximizing Efficiency and Savings The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Mobile Attendance App with Face Recognition Centralized and robust attendance app to monitor the time and attendance of your distributed, on-field, and on-premise staff Book a free Demo Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Clock in from Anywhere, Any Device Truein runs on Android or iOS-based devices. The staff can clock in using their mobile or through a kiosk. Eliminates the need for complicated hardware or standalone attendance machines. Best for field or roaming staff, retail stores, construction sites, facility management companies, manufacturing companies, and more. Sign up for a Demo Clock In/Out at Multiple Locations Does your staff require to work across multiple locations? Truein automatically tracks where they are. Geofencing ensures the staff clocks in only at specific locations and prevents them from clocking in when they are out of range. Centralized dashboard offers a real-time view of the multiple clock-ins. Try it for free No Internet? Truein Tracks Time Offline Too Staff can clock in and out with or without the internet, and you can continue tracking their attendance. Face recognition and GPS tracking also work without the net. No more buddy punching or time theft, even in offline mode. Truein automatically syncs data once the internet is back. Request a Demo Selfie Attendance with Facial Recognition Truein's AI-powered facial recognition feature offers practically 100% accurate clockin. The feature works with face masks or changes in facial attributes like a beard, a new hairstyle, or even with spectacles. Check Pricing Detailed Reports and Analytics Detailed reports and analytics make managing payroll easy. Error-free final payroll-ready reports eliminate the need for reconciliation and the creation of manual reports. Get daily, and monthly reports directly from the app in a format of your choice. Enquire Now! Centralized Controls Centralized view enables tracking of your distributed, on-field, and on-premise staff. Know who is in or out in real-time. Get a real-time view of attendance status and history, download reports, manage staff directories, and more from the mobile app. Talk to Us! Secure Cloud Storage Enterprise-grade cloud infrastructure with stringent security and privacy protocols ensures the security of your data. Our resilient architecture and processes have practically full up-time. Get in Touch Staff Self-Service on the App The mobile app enables your staff to regularize their attendance, view attendance history, apply for leaves, check their leave status, view their shifts, and more. Take a Demo That's not all! Truein offers much more! Time off (Leave) Management Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with payroll Shift scheduling Job mapping Kiosk mode (Touchless) Blacklist, deactivate Staff Web dashboard Attendancereminders Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Truein for companies with Contract and Distributed workforce Construction Manufacturing Supply Chain, Logistics Facility Management Retail Chain Manpower Staffing Agencies Other Contract Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Frequently Asked Questions How many employees can be registered on Truein’s mobile-based attendance system? You can register an unlimited number of employees on Truein's mobile-based attendance system. Their system is designed to scale with your business, so you don't need to worry about outgrowing it as your team expands. Can the software integrate seamlessly with our existing HR or payroll software? Absolutely, Truein can easily be integrated with any 3rd party or In-house software via the API. We have already integrated with QuickBooks, Sage, Xero, ADP, and Other major HRMS/Payroll software. Can the attendance software support geographically dispersed teams or remote workers? Yes, Truein is designed to handle your staff spread across locations. It provides a real-time view of attendance status, allows you to view attendance history, manage staff directories, download reports, and more from a centralized web dashboard and mobile app How does your mobile-based attendance system address issues such as employee privacy and consent? Truein provides organizations the option to obtain consent for GPS-based attendance and face recognition authentication. Additionally, Truein offers a feature where face records are not stored in the database and are solely used for recognition, prioritizing user privacy. What analytics and reporting capabilities does your mobile-based attendance system offer? You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein provides various report formats, and customization options to align with your organization's specific needs. Can Truein accommodate different types of employee schedules, such as flexible or shift-based work arrangements? Yes, Truein is designed to accommodate different types of employee schedules, including flexible or shift-based work arrangements. It provides flexibility to adapt to various work schedules, ensuring accurate tracking of attendance regardless of the type of work arrangement your organization follow. Can I get real-time notifications or alerts for attendance-related issues, such as late arrivals or unauthorized absences? Yes, Truein allows you to receive real-time notifications and alerts for attendance-related issues, such as late arrivals or unauthorized absences. You can set up customized alerts to stay informed about any deviations. How does your mobile-based attendance system handle offline attendance marking in areas with poor connectivity or limited internet access? Truein is designed to handle offline attendance marking in areas with poor connectivity. Truein allows staff to clock In/Out even without the internet. Both face recognition and GPS geofencing functionalities work offline as well. Truein automatically syncs the data once the internet connection is restored, ensuring accurate and up-to-date attendance records. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Centralized and Robust Time & Attendance Solution for a Contract Workforce Face recognition based workforce time clock designed for your contract staff. Truein brings in transparency and plugs revenue leakages. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Instant and Anywhere Mobile/Tablet based. Geofenced clock in from staff’s own mobile or a kiosk. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the admin, HR, or supervisor. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per sites or staff categories. Shifts, Overtime, Late marks, Staff breaks, and more. Auto-deactivation, blacklisting, and other features to ensure security. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Contract Staff Companies Unispice used Truein's time & attendance solution to prevent reconciliation issues and revenue leakages. 5 Sites 2000+ Staff Unispice had a completely manual time & attendance process for their farm workers. The workers get transferred from one farm to another daily, and managing their headcounts was cumbersome. Most of their staff are sourced from contract agencies and keep changing frequently. Tracking these agencies and workers from these agencies was challenging. The onboarding of staff and collecting their domicile details was a time-consuming process. Truein offered them attendance capturing through the kiosk. It was accurate and automated and offered centralized controls for time & attendance management, which brought about transparency. Truein also simplified the onboarding and transfer process, offered staff addition through the kiosk, easy integration with their existing ERP and payroll, and more. Read more Truein has strengthened the quality and accuracy of our Time & Attendance process. It has helped to ensure compliances and generate trust among end-users. Excellent product! Henry Carrillo Farm Administrator Unispice Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Truein makes it incredibly easy to onboard, manage contractor agencies, and accurately capture and track your contract workforce time & attendance. Quick Onboarding for your Ever-Changing Staff Frequent or last-moment onboardings? Truein can add new staff instantly. The staff can onboard by showing their face on the kiosk or with a selfie using their mobile. Govt. ID capture feature enables the quick capture of a staff's info from a valid government ID card. Saves HR effort and time, especially with a frequently changing staff. No More Buddy Punching with Facial Recognition Truein's AI-powered facial recognition feature offers practically 100% accurate clock in and eliminates instances of buddy punching. Geofencing Technology for Clock In/Out at Multiple Locations Truein's geofencing technology enables your staff to clock in from one or more approved locations. Multiple locations are traceable with time and location stamps. Geofencing ensures the staff clocks In/Out only at permitted locations and not when they are out of range. Easy Shift Management for your Contract Staff Working 24/7 Truein helps to plan the shift roaster optimally. Allocate shifts for your staff bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changes in the number of staff members in each shift. Option for automatic allocation of shifts based on the in and out time. Contractor Agencies Management Sourcing contract staff from multiple agencies? Truein makes the process smooth and seamless.The contractor-level limit feature allows you to specify the number of staff who can be sourced from an agency, preventing additional billing. Contractors can onboard the staff at their end and manage staff documentation, policies, and more. Contract agency supervisors can also begiven access for their staff. Multiple Customizable Policies Truein allows you to customize break time, late marks, overtime policies, leave policies, and more based on your requirements. There are over 70+ policies to help you track time and attendance accurately. You don’t have to spend hours in reconciliation every month end. Pay-Roll Ready Reports Truein seamlessly integrates with any 3rd party HR/payroll software. Detailed time and attendance reports and analytics make managing payroll easy. Error-free final payroll-ready reports eliminate the need for reconciliation. Get daily, and monthly attendance reports directly in a format of your choice. Frequently Asked Questions Will Truein be easy to use for a lower-skilled workforce? Yes, Truein is very much easy for them to use. Truein is designed keeping in mind a lower-skilled workforce. Truein is robust and foolproof and uses advanced face recognition technology. Staff can easily take attendance by showing their face on the kiosk app. Is Truein easy to set up and scalable? Yes, Truein is extremely easy to set up in any location and is scalable. The app can be easily installed on a tablet or mobile. The staff can mark attendance using their mobile or from a dedicated kiosk. No upfront hardware costs are involved, and no maintenance of custom hardware is needed. Is Truein suitable for our use case/staff? Truein is a complete attendance and timesheet solution for companies employing contract staff or temporary workers. Face recognition based attendance, instant onboarding, easy shift scheduling, contractor agency management, accurate OT calculations, etc., makes Truein ideal for a contractual workforce. Can we control the number of staff check-ins at a site? Yes, the site-level limit feature controls the number of staff who can report or check in at a particular site on a given day. You can easily manage the daily changes in the number of staff required at a specific site. Can we track our staff distributed across our sites or locations? Yes, you can track your staff spread at multiple locations. You can get a real-time view of their attendance status. You can also view the staff attendance history, manage staff directories, download reports, and more from the web dashboard or mobile app. Can consolidated attendance reports be generated? Yes, Truein offers multiple reports and analytics. You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein offers various report formats, and you can even customize these formats. EOD summary via SMS is another feature of Truein. Is there a feature to track blacklisted staff? Yes, Truein offers a feature called 'Blacklist' to track blacklisted staff and prevent them from rejoining. When a staff reports to a site, the system will cross-check with the information in the database, and in case the staff was blacklisted by the company previously, the system will convey the same. Can a staff get additional site access or access to multiple sites? Yes, staff can be given access to multiple sites or work locations. Are there any other features specific to a Contract Workforce that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing quick onboarding, instant time tracking, and customizable policies, also offer the following features: Staff Directory Shift Scheduling Job Mapping Admin or Supervisor view Offline Mode with Auto Sync Attendance Audits Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form