Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Manpower Budgeting – Definition, Explanation, and Example Manpower Budgeting – Definition, Explanation, and Example May 15, 2024 Budgeting is an essential aspect of HR planning in any organization. It helps companies grow sustainably while assisting them in using the available resources more efficiently. The most expensive but critical resource for running a company is manpower. Manpower budgeting can make or break your business growth. The challenge is many managers do not know how manpower budgeting in HR works. Budgeting is essential for covering the expenses related to recruitment, training, salaries, and benefits in the best manner for your company. Manpower budgeting help companies take away any underlying surprises that can compromise or make it difficult to build a strong workforce. If you are repeatedly facing uncertainty with workforce management , hiring, and worker retention, you might need a manpower budget, as we are about to discuss. Table of Contents What is manpower budgeting? Why do you need to plan a manpower budget? How to prepare a manpower budget? 1. Define the business goals 2. Review past budgets 3. Analyze and forecast worker needs 4. Plan for the best and worst-case scenarios Things to consider while creating a manpower budget 1. Tools for data collection 2. Keep reviewing the manpower plan 3. Training workers Example of manpower budget Conclusion What is manpower budgeting? Manpower budgeting involves systematically collecting data and information so that the finances needed to support a company’s production and service objectives can be projected. Every successful company has a manpower budgeting process in the overall HR management. Before working on manpower budgeting, a company must create strategic planning to identify the annual goals and objectives. This is an important step in manpower budgeting as it allows the managers to concentrate the allotted budgets on supporting the planned objectives. At companies, usually, there are two methods of manpower budgeting in HR. Incremental budgeting: In this type of manpower budgeting, you adjust the current budget to align the output per the forecasted expectations. Zero-based budgeting: In this form of manpower budgeting in HR, every item in the budget must be justified before it is included in the budget strategy. Therefore, it begins with a clean slate, no prior budgets involved. Why do you need to plan a manpower budget? Large businesses often focus on planning and forecasting to anticipate upcoming opportunities to keep their growth continuous and sustainable. Now, if the anticipated opportunities are realized and converted into a business, you will need workers and laborers to start working on them. However, there is always a looming threat that you might overhire, and the increase in workers means additional labor costs that can eat up your revenues. This is why you need manpower budgeting to support hiring additional skilled manpower without derailing your annual budget. This is achieved through manpower budgeting. As part of manpower budget planning, managers determine how and when new workers will be hired to work for the company. The process focuses on achieving the organization’s goal without extending the manpower budget or exploiting workers. Manpower budgeting is mandatory for any company that wants to be prepared for the future with the adequate number of workers at their disposal necessary for prosperity. Workforce budgeting is different for every company, depending on the business objective. Based on your company objectives, you have to create a custom budgeting plan to decide on improving the workers and the company. How to prepare a manpower budget? Manpower budgeting involves several steps, and the final process will depend on the type of workforce you employ and the existing HR budget policies. 1. Define the business goals Your manpower budget planning must align with the business goals. The first step is determining your business’s priorities and then handling lesser critical areas. For instance, at large manufacturing units, it is essential to encourage HR to be involved in all areas of corporate strategy because they better understand the workforce requirement. 2. Review past budgets It helps if you review the past budget for spending and performance data. It provides valuable insights for manpower budgeting as you learn and improve on the outcomes of the previous budgets. 3. Analyze and forecast worker needs Planning for recruitment needs provides you an advantage when manpower budgeting. You must know the number of workers employed in every department and how the overall workforce number compares to the turnover rate and project performance. 4. Plan for the best and worst-case scenarios Suppose you look at how manpower management was disrupted during the 2020-22 period due to the pandemic. In that case, it is a sign that manpower planning and budgeting can assist you in dealing with difficult situations easily. Your manpower budgeting must focus on the best and worst of the market. For instance, if your company has an annual employee turnover of 5%, but if it increases to 20% due to a pandemic or economic slowdown, you need to have a budget planned to spend on recruiting more workers to replace the ones leaving. Things to consider while creating a manpower budget 1. Tools for data collection Manpower budgeting has data at its core, which is why companies must have tools to analyze trends in workforce management. Truein is a cloud-based, hardware-less staff time and attendance management system that can help with manpower budgeting. It accurately logs workers’ working hours, records overtime hours, specializes in contractual workforce management, and features data-driven report generation. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help to track the attendance and working hours of workers. 2. Keep reviewing the manpower plan Heads of the departments must keep reviewing the changes proposed to manpower planning to justify their relevancy and accuracy. 3. Training workers Workers must be trained to have the best skills, knowledge, and understanding of their roles. The purpose of training must make them ready for current roles as well as future requirements. Example of manpower budget Construction companies make ideal manpower budget examples as they often face problems hiring workers for upcoming projects. As the construction industry has many laborers employed, attrition is also high. Such companies need to have the manpower available to handle forthcoming projects but also be vary to hiring too many workers. Construction companies use forecasting and planning per the market requirements to remain operational and profitable in the long term. Conclusion “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Manpower budgeting is essential for companies to ensure the availability of workers without overhiring or understaffing. Manpower budget planning allows businesses to maintain a pool of workers, forecasting training spending, and ensure the labor cost is always aligned with company revenue objectives. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 15, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 15, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 15, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 15, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 15, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Construction Cost Management - Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan Manpower Forecasting - Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Enhance Manpower Productivity and Efficiency: Discover 9 Effective Strategies Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees May 20, 2024 Trust in your employees is essential, even necessary, to ensure smooth operations. But if your workers start taking advantage of your trust, or they routinely defy the company attendance and work policies, you need to take stringent action. However, you need evidence to confront your employees for time theft or playing fast and loose with the company policies. Fortunately, attendance apps can easily help you track your workers’ time and attendance. Time theft causes US employers a staggering $373 million per year , which is why it is required to nip the evil in the bud. An employee attendance app is a simple yet highly efficient solution to ensure that the workers work for the hours they are paid and are present exactly where they are supposed to be. These apps come with additional HR features for workforce management. In this article, we will share the best attendance app for employees, but before that, let’s look at what features you should focus on. Table of Contents What to look for in an employee attendance tracker? 1. Truein Key features: Pros: Cons: 2. Timely Features: Pros: Cons: 3. Connecteam Features: Pros: Cons: 4. Workstatus Key Features: Pros: Cons: 5. Harvest Features: Pros: Cons: 6. TSheets Features: Pros: Cons: 7. Hubstaff Features: Pros: Cons: 8. Bonsai Features: Pros: Cons: Conclusion What to look for in an employee attendance tracker? Some of the essential features to look for when choosing an attendance tracker app for employees are: Easy to deploy: An employee time and attendance app should be easy to deploy with negligible dependence on additional hardware. Ease of use: As the attendance app will be used by workers and management alike, it should be easy to use even for workers will lesser technical acumen. Features: Employees must easily clock in and out using the app. It should let employees log in quickly without struggle. Automated alerts and reminders: It should send workers, supervisors, and managers automated alerts for important updates such as leaves, absents, and shift changes. Management options: The best attendance app will have leave, absence, and overtime management options to easily track work hours. Payroll management: The app must be easy to integrate with existing payroll software at the company. Price: The app must be a cost-effect time and attendance management solution that suits your budget. Support: Finally, the team behind the app must be able to offer good customer support. Based on these factors, we picked the best employee attendance trackers on the market. Let’s take a look. 1. Truein Truein is the best attendance app that has over 300 customers from 25+ countries. Its customers include prominent brands such as Compass Group , Godrej , Tata Projects , Schindler, UniSpice, and Dominion Global. Companies use it for tracking attendance of regular, contractual, and distributed workforce. It is a hardware-less, cloud-based employee attendance tracker app with a mobile-first solution for companies across industries. It features several HR options to manage attendance, overtime, shift schedule, leaves, and alerts. Key features: Geofencing and GPS-tracking run on mobile/tablet devices. It can be deployed for multiple sites and gives centralized control to managers Automated notifications and alerts Auto attendance audit to ensure no time theft is committed 70+ customizable attendance policies to automate shifts, overtime, late marks and more Time off and holidays Contractual and distributed staff use case Insightful reports and analytics Integration with payroll/HRMS Pros: Hardware-less mode makes it more suitable for organizations with roaming staff and distributed store It can be deployed immediately on Android or iOS phones of employees with minimal setup Fast customer support Easy to integrate with any payroll software Highly affordable attendance app Cons: There is no free plan “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Timely Another competitive attendance app is Timely, which allows managers to track employee time and attendance in a single dashboard. It has a fundamental KPI tracking feature to monitor team performance in the context of key metrics like capacity, overtime, etc. Not as versatile as Truein, it features a customizable tagging system to know how workers spend their time. However, the limitations of this attendance tracker app for employees make it suitable for specific industries like salon and spa businesses. Another competitive attendance app is Timely, which allows managers to track employee time and attendance in a single dashboard. It has a fundamental KPI tracking feature to monitor team performance in the context of key metrics like capacity, overtime, etc. Not as versatile as Truein, it features a customizable tagging system to know how workers spend their time. However, the limitations of this attendance tracker app for employees make it suitable for specific industries like salon and spa businesses. Features: Overtime documentation for managers Timesheet sharing option Payroll system included in the app Option for performance reviews Invoicing feature Pros: Quite straightforward to use Mobile and desktop apps available Decent customer service Cons: The features are basic No advanced reporting to scheduling No option to include text or SMS alerts Only available in English 3. Connecteam Connecteam is an online time and attendance system that can be deployed on workers’ phones. It is also a complete attendance tracker app for employees like Truein but comparatively is very expensive and not suitable for smaller businesses that are looking for an attendance app for better tracking efficiency. It features the Breadcrumbs technology, similar to Truein’s geofencing capability, allowing managers to see employees’ locations to prevent potential time theft . To allow more coverage, the features such as GPS-empowered timestamp and map view make it suitable for frontline workers and remote employees. Features: Desktop and mobile access Geofencing, GPS tracking Timesheet and payroll management with Quickbooks In-app chat Pros: Efficiently manage time and attendance Responsive customer support Easy to implement Cons: Limited functionality given the high price Not suitable for smaller businesses Free plan only allows 30 users 4. Workstatus Workstatus is the leading time tracking and attendance management software used by numerous organizations globally. Companies use Workstatus to accurately record attendance and hours worked by regular, remote, and field employees. It is a user-friendly cloud-based solution for comprehensive workforce management across industries. Workstatus provides powerful features to track time, manage shifts, verify attendance, boost productivity, and streamline payroll. Key Features: Precise location tracking using geofencing and GPS running on mobile devices. Centralized dashboard for managers to oversee multiple team members and sites. Automated notifications on attendance, timesheets, and violations. Time audits and random screenshots prevent attendance abuse. Flexible shift scheduling with calendar sync. Detailed timesheets, reports, and analytics for insights. Direct integrations with payroll platforms. Pros: Improved payroll accuracy with automated time tracking. Oversight of remote and field employees through location tracking. Robust employee monitoring features. Easy to set up without extra hardware. Free plan available to try software. Cons: Can seem invasive with location tracking and monitoring. 5. Harvest Harvest is a simple time clock app that you can use to monitor the employees’ attendance, absences, and work hours. It is a lightweight app with limited features allowing managers to track employee time and attendance. It is suitable for retail and delivery businesses and focuses on the requirement of these domains. Its features include accessible expense records by snapping photos of the receipts. It helps you track the invoices and their status and can record payments directly from your phone. A delivery agent can use the app to track mileage for reimbursement later on. Harvest can record employees’ online and offline time as an employee attendance tracker app. It can set task timers and allows timely reminders to submit time (timesheet approval). You have to enter the attendance data into your Harvest account manually. Features: Track expenses and billable hours Timesheet approval Automatic reminders Pros: Suitable as an invoicing app Easy to use Cons: Not a fully capable employee attendance app Poor customer support Interface is not intuitive and looks outdated 6. TSheets TSheets is also popularly known as the solutionTSheets, now branded QuickBooks. It is a widely used tracking software at enterprises allowing companies to track work hours, projects, and labor estimates. Even after its mass adoption, it is not the best attendance app because it has limited features. While you can easily integrate QuickBooks with Xero, Square, Dropbox, and Salesforce, it is more like a project management app offering payroll reports, workforce visibility, and detailed timesheets. It is suitable for both smaller and larger businesses. Features: It can be used as a desktop or mobile app or as a kiosk GPS time stamps Real-time tracking and reports Alerts and approvals Easy team management Pros: Detailed reporting Easy to use Cons: Customer service is poor Advanced features are not simple to use No free plan; you have to pay $8/user per month 7. Hubstaff Another attendance app that features some advanced features is Hubstaff. The unique features included in this app are automated payments and time tracking with screenshots. It allows management to track work hours in real-time with GPS location. Among other features, it offers payroll, invoicing, and report generation. If a worker loses internet, this employee attendance tracker app tracks hours offline and syncs back up once the connection is restored. Features: Hubstaff is the best employee attendance tracker for field workers It offers detailed reports Online timesheets Expense tracking Works as a central Kiosk app if needed Pros: Easy productivity management Better user interface Advanced reporting features Cons: Inbuilt payroll options are minimal There are limited customization options Some users reported bugs in the productivity tracker 8. Bonsai Bonsai is marketed as a suite of tools for freelancers and can be used as a personal time tracker. But you can still use it as an employee attendance app. However, you will notice a significant difference in its features as it is not a comprehensive and dedicated time and attendance app like Truein. It is more suitable to automate and streamline business workflows to monitor project progress and employee productivity. While Bonsai offers features to keep track of work days, managers need a 360-degree view of employees’ time and attendance as with other apps. You can use it to track time on projects, include time in project timesheets, and invoice hours accordingly. Features: More suitable as a personal time tracker Includes templates for proposals, and contracts Can manage clients, projects, files, documents, and payments Customizable forms and questionnaires Allows easy collaboration with clients Pros: With some customizations can be used as an employee attendance tracker Auto invoice generation Time and attendance tracking capabilities Cons: Not a versatile employee attendance tracker No central dashboard for managers Limited options for workforce management No free plan is available Conclusion A time and attendance app is a requirement for businesses today. As we embrace digital transformation, you cannot rely on traditional paper timesheets or Excel to track employee attendance. It is essential to embrace software solutions to boost productivity and simplify workforce management. We hope the list of attendance apps we have shared above will help you choose the best solution. Ensure that you choose a product keeping your business requirements, features, and budget in mind. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Best Geofencing Apps for Employees in 2024 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? June 19, 2024 Businesses rely on manpower irrespective of size and industry. Interestingly, even when the organization of workers and laborers has been around for centuries, these signs of manpower management are still new. If you are a manager, then you must understand the importance of manpower planning in HRM and how to maximize the utilization of the workforce for productivity and profits. It is essential to know how manpower can be planned and aligned with the company’s goals and visions. In this article, we will discuss manpower planning in detail. Table of Contents What is manpower planning in human resource management? Types of manpower planning 1. Manpower planning at an organizational level 2. Manpower planning at micro-level 3. Short-term manpower planning 4. Medium-term manpower planning 5. Long-term manpower planning How to do manpower planning? 1. Trend Analysis 2. Work Load Analysis 3. Developing employment programs 4. Design training programs Need for manpower planning Factors that affect manpower planning in HRM 1. Monitoring of current manpower 2. Participation of all stakeholders 3. Socio-economic work culture Conclusion What is manpower planning in human resource management? Manpower is the primary resource for any company. In its absence, other resources like raw materials, money, machinery, etc., cannot be used. Workers are needed for every unit, even those with a high degree of automation, such as pharmaceuticals. This is why manpower is an essential resource that needs planning more than any other aspect of running a company. To become a successful manager, you must learn the importance of manpower planning. Manpower planning is evaluating, strategizing, and assessing the workers’ skills to create manpower teams that work at optimum productivity within an organization. Improper planning of the workforce can lead to overstaffing or understaffing, resulting in productivity and revenue losses. Manpower planning, as part of human resource management, empowers managers to create schedules and manage workers while improving production, work culture, and industrial relations. Types of manpower planning Manpower planning is a complicated process that has several levels of management. For organizational human resource management, there are probably two types of manpower planning. First, based on the level at which manpower planning is done. Second, based on the period for which it is done. 1. Manpower planning at an organizational level For the overall development of an organization, manpower planning can be done at an organizational level to create more opportunities for employment while utilizing available human resources most efficiently. An ample example of manpower planning at the macro level is when a company goes through a dramatic transformation that requires large-scale training of workers. For instance, Corning grew from a glass manufacturer to the biggest supplier of Gorilla glass today . Its success is based on excellent manpower planning. 2. Manpower planning at micro-level A more practical approach to manpower planning is at the micro level. At this level, managers take various measures at the business unit’s recruitment, selection, promotion, and expansion stages to train, compensate, and plan workers. Next is the types of manpower planning based on the duration. 3. Short-term manpower planning When manpower planning is done for one year, it is called short-term manpower planning. Annual plans are beneficial at the company level because short-term gains can be integrated easily into the company’s positive medium-term or long-term growth. 4. Medium-term manpower planning Generally, manpower planning that is for a period of 2 to 5 years is considered medium-term. Training and development of employees is often part of medium-term Manpower planning as it focuses on imparting skills that will be useful for the company in the next five years. 5. Long-term manpower planning Any manpower planning scheme that is over ten years is long-term manpower planning. Most companies utilize long-term manpower planning to forecast the growth of the company and plan further expansions. As part of long-term manpower planning, essential decisions regarding investments, acquisitions, and mergers are taken. How to do manpower planning? Before managers can forecast future manpower planning, they must evaluate the current manpower inventory. The type of manpower planning in HRM that will be suitable for your company depends on the kind of organization, the number of departments, and the employees in each work unit. Manpower planning is multidisciplinary and utilizes several forecast models. It usually includes: 1. Trend Analysis Managers have to use extrapolation (projecting past trends), indexation (using the current year as the basis), and statistical analysis to anticipate any sudden demand or decline in the number of workers in the company. 2. Work Load Analysis It involves evaluating the nature of workload in a department, a branch, or the division to map it to the available manpower. 3. Developing employment programs Once you have accurately created future forecasts based on the current manpower inventory, you can create employment programs to hire or train more the number of workers as per the forecast. 4. Design training programs Also, during workload analysis, you may need diversification, training, and development programs to make workers more productive at their jobs. The training programs depend on the extent of improvement required in the workforce or the level of technological advancement to be implemented in the company “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Need for manpower planning Any company with future growth prospects requires manpower planning to support sustainable growth and expansion. Manpower planning is a two-phased process that analyses the current human resources and makes forecasts related to the manpower that initiates the creation of employment programs. The need for manpower planning arises from the following requirements of a company: To proactively identify any shortage of surplus in the workforce to take necessary steps before any serious damage to the company’s financial prospects. Ensure that all recruitment and selection programs are based on manpower planning for best results. To reduce labor costs from hiring excess staff or overstaffing shift schedules. Manpower planning can also help identify the available talent, such as skilled laborers within the workforce, to further chalk out a development plan for such workers. It also supports the growth and diversification of your business, as through manpower planning, you can best utilize available human resources. Factors that affect manpower planning in HRM Manpower planning requires coordinated efforts from managers, supervisors, and executives. The following factors must be considered for manpower planning in HRM: 1. Monitoring of current manpower Available manpower must be closely monitored to evaluate their productivity and efficiency. Automation software like Truein can significantly simplify the process of staff time and attendance management . It is an AI-based, hardwareless employee time and attendance tracking software that companies across industries-manufacturing, mining, construction, automobiles, pharmaceuticals, etc., can deploy in their facilities to track and monitor workers in real time. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the time and attendance tracking of your employees. 2. Participation of all stakeholders Management, top-level executives, and workers must be part of manpower planning. Low-level workers can provide important information regarding the work environment, resource utilization, and training requirements. 3. Socio-economic work culture Manpower planning in HRM is also affected by the work environment within an organization. If your workers are unsatisfied, continuously stressed due to work, or have an unhealthy work/life balance, it can adversely affect your manpower planning efforts. Conclusion Any business that anticipates future growth or sustainable expansion of its products and services must invest in manpower planning. When done correctly, it can be a powerful strategy to fuel your company’s growth and workforce development. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 19, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 19, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 19, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 19, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 19, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Forecasting - Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Construction Cost Management – Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan Construction Cost Management – Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan January 2, 2023 In the construction industry, one major challenge is tracking costs and monitoring risk while keeping a job on budget. Effectively implementing construction cost management is pivotal in delivering a project on time and within budget. In the construction industry, it is essential to fine-tune the cost management process to maintain the efficiency of your services and remain profitable. Now cost control in construction can be managed easily if you understand some essential concepts. This is what we are about to discuss in this article. We will explore how construction cost management relates to your workers’ efficiency and, ultimately, your bottom line. Table of Contents What is construction cost management? Mismanaged areas in construction cost management Planning a construction budget How to create a construction cost management plan? 1. Project research and analysis 2. Project development 3. Preconstruction and documentation Cost control in construction project 1. Keep labor costs in check 2. Monitor project status 3. Adjust key result areas Conclusion What is construction cost management? Construction cost management is primarily focused on keeping the project budget within the planned limits and avoiding any increase in the total cost of the budget that can eat up your profits. Simply put, with construction budget management, companies can set a standard for all project costs ensuring that spending at any point stays within the pre-determined cost limits. Cost control on construction impacts all phases of a project, including planning, designing, estimation, change orders, hiring of laborers, and the finished product. Maintaining a reputation as a proactive, efficient, and accurate service provider in estimating and executing a proposed project budget is also essential. Construction companies have a lot to take care of when they take on new projects and maintain many requirements. It is easy to mismanage the costs, which is why construction cost management is essential. At the core, the main requirement of cost control in the construction project is to implement systems to ensure that the project is delivered within scope and on budget. Mismanaged areas in construction cost management It is common for construction projects to get out of budget. According to the consulting giant KPMG , “ Just 25% of projects came within 10% of their original deadlines in the past 3 years.” It shows that without proper construction cost management, companies can lose profits and end up in debt. Why is it that even with careful cost control in construction, only 25% of the projects can maintain a positive cost budget? The answer lies in the external factors that affect the overall construction cost of a project. As such, a construction project requires raw materials procured from external sources. Compared to other industries, it is impossible to stock the building materials, as they are procured and delivered directly on-site. According to market reports , the cost of construction has risen 10%-12% in the last year, which has pushed the prices of real estate. This increase in the construction cost is due to higher input costs from the supply-side constraints. The rising price of crucial materials like cement and steel makes it tricky to estimate the construction cost accurately. In 2022, the price of essential construction materials has increased by 20%. According to the real estate consultancy firm Colliers, “With rising material cost, developers will be compelled to increase prices as construction materials account for about 2/3rd share in the total cost of construction. With wholesale price inflation (WPI) and material cost, both seeing a double-digit rise, the construction cost can rise by a further 8-9% by December 2022.” Planning a construction budget The best way to ensure that you are at the top of construction cost management is to plan it at the beginning of the project. Your construction budget is just like any other budget that anticipates and adds up all the costs so the project can be executed. Every construction project cost falls under one of these categories: Direct costs: Materials, labor, heavy machinery, and consultation fee falls under this category. General conditions: Also known as an indirect cost, it includes preconstruction costs, construction organization costs, and project operating costs. Overhead and profit: Overheads are the expenses associated with running your business, and profit is your earnings after all spending is deducted from project costs. How to create a construction cost management plan? An accurate construction budget requires that you include the following steps: 1. Project research and analysis Accurate forecasting is required for cost control in construction projects, so you must review the historical data of similar projects. Meet with suppliers to anticipate fluctuation in essential material costs. 2. Project development Research and project analysis help architects create the final design before it can be executed. A project manager uses this information to create a requirement list that includes materials and cost estimations. It is a crucial phase of cost control management because it guides your bidding. Depending on the cost estimations from the project managers, you can set the actual construction project budget to give to the clients by factoring in your profit margin. 3. Preconstruction and documentation This is where the project manager speaks to the stakeholders to highlight the issues the construction project will resolve. The preconstruction phase is necessary to make stakeholders aware of any unexpected costs that can come up. This is important to ensure that contractors don’t have to bear additional charges if they are already discussed with the stakeholders. Cost control in construction project As KPMG highlight that only one-fourth of the construction projects remain within the budget, it is safe to assume that a construction project has a high likelihood of getting out of budget. Here are the steps you can take for effective construction cost management: 1. Keep labor costs in check The construction industry is one of the largest employers of unskilled labor and contract workers. You must have adequate measures to monitor the productivity of such workers. Truein is a cloud-based, hardware-less time and attendance management solution that construction companies can deploy on-site. Workers can download the Truein app on their phones, and managers can set GPS-based geofencing attendance to ensure that workers are present on site. Truein provides segregated contractual workforce management to ensure project managers can easily manage full-time and contract workers. By tracking workers in real-time, you can ensure labor cost is justified. Schedule a free demo today and see Truein in action at your organization. 2. Monitor project status Things might go wrong during a construction project, and the role of project managers is to avoid the blame game and look into the factors that result in costs getting out of budget. You can utilize the Five Whys Technique to explore the underlying problems. 3. Adjust key result areas It is common for project managers in construction cost management to assume that cost correction will happen later. In construction projects, small mistakes here and there don’t wash up. Instead, they have a snowball effect on the overall budget. Project managers must adjust such minor discrepancies in project costs as they occur. Conclusion With construction cost management, every aspect of a construction project can achieve the best outcome. With successful cost control in construction, you set up your company for success time and again. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jan 02, 2023 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jan 02, 2023 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jan 02, 2023 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jan 02, 2023 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jan 02, 2023 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Budgeting - Definition, Explanation, and Example 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? May 31, 2024 A company operates with its workforce at the core of its operations. As part of a progressive work culture, companies offer employees several benefits, including insurance coverage. When you offer employee health insurance as part of the pay benefit working for a company, workers are encouraged and feel more comfortable working in jobs that require physical labor. Industries such as manufacturing, mining, construction, and shipment that employ a large number of blue-collar workers can benefit from offering group health insurance to the workers. In this article, we will take a closer look at employee health insurance and how it benefits companies and workers. Table of Contents What is employee health insurance? Why should you offer health insurance to employees? 1. Employee benefit 2. Benefit from tax incentives 3. Hiring and retention Should employers choose individual or group health insurance? How to choose the best health insurance for your employees? Conclusion What is employee health insurance? Employee health insurance is a benefit extended to workers within the company. The coverage is not only for the workers employed by the employer but also provides insurance coverage to the rest of their family members as part of the policy. Companies that offer medical insurance for employees pay full or partial premiums for their insurance policies. Previously, it was an optional decision for employers to offer employee health insurance as part of work benefits; however, post-pandemic, the Indian government has made it mandatory for employers to provide employee medical insurance. The decision was implemented in April 2020 , and all industries must provide employee health insurance irrespective of skills or type of employment. Besides offering a safety net for workers to deal with medical expenses or costly treatments, medical insurance for employees is an employee prosperity and value plan. It adds to your employer’s brand and communicates to the workers that you care about their well-being. Employee health insurance can be a powerful tool to engage workers and earn loyalty. Why should you offer health insurance to employees? As an employer, you must know why some of the most successful companies offer health insurance to employees. Employee health insurance helps your company operate more strategically, efficiently, and effectively. Here are some critical reasons why offer health insurance to employees. 1. Employee benefit With an employee health insurance policy, workers and laborers can afford individual health insurance that might otherwise be out of reach. The workers do not have to pay the premium for the policy as the company pays on their behalf. This is how workers receive health insurance coverage free of cost or at lower prices. 2. Benefit from tax incentives For employers, there is a financial advantage to providing health insurance to the workers as tax benefits are associated with it. Generally, the employee health insurance premiums are 100% tax deductible which offers companies a way to save on federal business taxes. Additionally, offering health insurance coverage as part of the compensation package to the workers potentially means you can reduce the payroll taxes. Whether you provide individual/group employee health insurance, you can be eligible for a business health care tax credit. 3. Hiring and retention Since the pandemic, employees have become more discerning about opportunities that offer better health benefits. People-oriented companies provide employee health insurance that also engages employees to stay with the company for longer. This is why employers should provide health insurance because it helps with the retention of workers. Also, it attracts workers to your company as well. Should employers choose individual or group health insurance? A solid employee health insurance plan can contribute to your employees’ well-being and benefit your company simultaneously. However, you must choose between individual and group health insurance policies wisely. A group health insurance policy covers a group of workers. It is only available for employers, and employees pay little or no premium towards a group health insurance policy. Usually, it only covers the workers, but some policies also cover their dependents. An individual health insurance policy is the commonly available option that requires a health check-up of the individual before the policy is issued. Typically, individual employee health policy requires much more due diligence and has a long waiting period. As an employer, you must choose a group employee health insurance policy because it acts as a master plan offering uniform coverage to all workers who are part of a group. It allows you to provide workers with the same type of insurance coverage depending on their position within the company. How to choose the best health insurance for your employees? There are considerations to keep in mind when you pick a group health insurance for your employees. Choose an employee health insurance plan with convenient options like telemedicine and urgent care visits. Opt for plans that provide cost savings to the workers so they can afford expensive treatment easily. Finally, look for insurers to provide a personalized experience to the employees when they have any questions regarding their health insurance. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Employee health insurance is a significant benefit that must be included as part of the pay package. It not only helps workers afford treatment and medical coverage for themselves and their families but also offers cost-saving benefits for employers. Truein is an employee time and attendance management software that can assist you in better managing the workforce. It assists managers with overtime and schedule management, it ensures that workers are not overly burdened or burnout. Truein also features leave management , attendance policy management, and real-time monitoring among other features. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the attendance management at your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Top 6 HRM Trends to Watch In 2024 Top 6 HRM Trends to Watch In 2024 July 24, 2024 Human resource management (HRM) is an essential process of workforce management . It is the practice of recruiting, hiring, deploying, and managing employees to ensure smooth functioning. HRM is also responsible for creating and overseeing the policies governing the organization’s and its employees’ relationships. A s HRM is closely related to employees and the employment protocols within an organization, it has to keep up with the changes in the domain. The economic slowdowns, globalization, workforce diversity, changing skills requirements, need for downsizing, decentralized work culture, and many more factors make it necessary to keep up with HR trends. Let’s look at the important HRM trends in 2023 that you must keep track of. Table of Contents 1. Focusing on workers' health 2. Introducing diversity in the workforce 3. Training employees 4. Facilitating hybrid culture 5. Rise of MNCs and globalization 6. Automation of everyday tasks Conclusion 1. Focusing on workers' health A recent study by the McKinsey Health Institute found that every one in four employees are experiencing burnout symptoms. The study further found a 22% gap between employers and employees in the perception of well-being at work. The startling difference in opinion leads to toxic work cultures and burnout in workers. So how can HRM help? Human resources can work on setting up healthy organizations. One of the increasing trends in HRM is to take a holistic and more inclusive enterprise-wide approach to workers’ well-being. The concept of a healthy organization goes beyond the physical health of the workers and aims at facilitating flexibility and more opportunities for training and empowerment. For instance, offering unskilled workers development programs help them move up the socio-economic level. 2. Introducing diversity in the workforce HRM was considerably more straightforward in the past as the workforce was highly homogeneous. But today, a typical workforce comprises people of different ages, gender, social class, values, cultures, and ethnicities. Diversity in the workforce is even required because it boosts creativity and innovation, which helps an organization’s competitiveness. Diversity inclusion will be one of the top HR trends in the coming years. A fun way for human resources to achieve this is through changes in the benefits package offered by the company. If you can provide family-friendly benefits, which include flexible work schedules and employer benefits such as childcare, you will attract talent from diverse backgrounds. HRM must also be mindful of the age difference among workers to effectively train people from different age groups to work together and respect diversity. 3. Training employees Continuous improvement programs provide human resources the much-needed advantage they require for a competitive edge. Training employees continuously is essential for organizations focusing on quality and building a better foundation for the workforce. It also helps with employee retention as workers grow in their position through learning. HRM must strive to improve existing training programs and introduce necessary changes to facilitate continuous training and learning. Also, amendments must be made to include specific requirements or facilities depending on the diversity of the workforce, such as translators and content in the native language. 4. Facilitating hybrid culture Since the pandemic, there has been a shift in workplace culture, and employees are looking for flexible work hours with the ability to work remotely. Most companies have adopted a hybrid work model, becoming one of the top trends in human resource management. A flexible work model includes a mix of in-office and remote work. Amazon, Infosys, Microsoft, and Siemens are some large corporations that have adopted the hybrid work culture. The question arises if the hybrid work model is enough to provide the much-needed flexibility. The end goal of this approach is to provide a psychologically safe environment for people to work in. It facilitates a better work/life balance, making them more productive and stress-free. Given the success of this work model, 74% of US companies are using or planning to implement a permanent hybrid work model. 5. Rise of MNCs and globalization The profitability and growth of businesses today depend on the local and international markets. This is evident from the rise of multinational corporations. To operate such corporations, human resource managers must make new requirements. Such businesses require a mix of employees in terms of skills, knowledge, diversity, and cultural adaptability. Another HR trend to keep a tab on is to create training and development programs to meet the challenges of globalization. HRM must develop mechanisms that support a multicultural workforce and allow individuals to work together. As the differences in background and language increase, the risk of employee conflict also increases. Human resource management’s responsibility is to train managers to be more flexible in these practices to minimize conflicts and have open conversations. 6. Automation of everyday tasks In 2023, organizations cannot become profitable and have a competitive advantage if they keep up with the traditional way of handling work processes. High-value and productive workings require leveraging the power of automation and AI-powered solutions that can accelerate the execution the daily tasks. From screening and sourcing talent to tracking employee time and attendance , adopting AI tools is one of the recent trends in HRM. Truein is an AI-powered, cloud-based, and hardware-less employee time and attendance management solution . It is a highly efficient tool for tracking work hours, attendance, performance, leave, overtime, and the real-time location of the workers. It also helps HRM be more productive by automating employee attendance and easily integrating with payroll software. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion By anticipating and implementing the trends in human resource management listed here, numerous companies sailed unscathed during the economic slowdowns, pandemic effects, and changing employee demands. This is why you must learn about HR trends in 2023 to rapidly transform your organization for high-quality employee experience and business profitability. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs New HR Trends for 2025: What Middle East Businesses Need to Know? Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Unlocking HR's Full Potential: Navigating the Top 5 Limitations of Human Resource Management Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? May 27, 2024 Salary is the primary motivator for employees to stay at a job in the first place. For employers, however, it can be challenging to decide how and when to pay employees in a way that will attract them and keep the business sustainable. The topic is on-demand pay, but to understand what it is and whether your organization must offer it, it is necessary to know why this pay type exists. Table of Contents Understanding employee expenses What is on-demand pay? How does on-demand pay work? Examples of on-demand pay services The pros and cons of on-demand pay Advantages for employees 1. Creates financial equity for employees 2. Financial well-being leads to physical well-being The drawbacks for employees 1. Fees 2. Taxes Benefits for employers 1. Better employee retention rates 2. More productive employees The cons of on-demand pay for employers 1. Pay errors 2. Taxes How Truein can help employers? Conclusion Understanding employee expenses For some employees, more than the amount of the paycheck the frequency is important to meet their needs to pay their bills simultaneously. Such a situation is strenuous for them because costs like late fees can put them in a vicious cycle of payday loans that is hard to break. This is one of the reasons why workers always look for pay and other financial benefits when looking for a job. Routine and steady pay benefits the employees as well as the employer. It draws in more talent and is incredibly enticing for young adults who recently got independent and started paying bills themselves. Furthermore, it also shows your existing employees that you value them and understand their hard work. The easiest way to help your employees attain financial stability and avoid strain is to offer them a routine and reliable paycheck. Even if you already provide them with this facility, you can introduce extra flexibility by allowing them to access their payments other than the designated payday. What we suggested above might sound easy to implement, but it is not, and things can get out of hand fast if you need to be more strategic about it. This is why we created this guide about on-demand to help you understand it better. What is on-demand pay? On-demand pay is a wage payment method that allows employees to receive their wages as they earn them. Usually, companies allow employees only to access a certain percentage of their salary per pay period, while the rest is paid as usual on the standard payday. However, on-demand pay allows workers to have access to their wages when they require it. It is essential to consider that as this mode of payment can have multiple transactions for the same salary, the fee per transaction can result in overhead that must be planned. Typically, the price for the use of on-demand pay options is included in the cost of the payroll provider charges. But standard practice is to charge the employees for the service and not the employer, unlike payroll processing. As a manager, you must decide what policies should dictate the processing of on-demand pay as it is not a standard transaction like payroll. Also, the limits need to be discussed for implementation because an unregulated number of pay demands can stress the company’s financial stability. How does on-demand pay work? The on-demand pay provides employees access to a limited amount of money between paychecks to meet unpredictable or urgent expenses. It gives them a sense of financial stability and security, allowing them to focus on work. There are several solutions to handle on-demand pay depending on when and how employees withdraw funds. Both parties, the employer and the employees, will undoubtedly have different opinions on how this mode of payment should work. It would be best if you balanced the needs of both parties as fairly as possible. Firstly, you must weigh the organization’s budgeting and cash flow options to ensure that the on-demand pay implementation will only affect the business’s ability to operate daily. Next, you can ask the employees for feedback to know their concerns and demands. Once you have all the data you need, you can move forward by determining the protocols that will dictate how on-demand pay will work within your organization. If you want, you can implement more than one type of solution for this to work. Here are some examples that can help. Examples of on-demand pay services Major US corporations like KFC, McDonald’s, and Taco Bell employ the services of Instant Financial . It is a payroll service providing more control in the hands of the worker. Instant financial allows employees to receive a smartphone notification about a shift, and they can decide if they want to collect a paycheck at the end of the day. If they select same-day payment, the money is transferred to the prepaid debit card or directly credited into their bank accounts. Another solution is to allow employees to use their pay schedules. It can work for both full-time and hourly employees. For example, Gusto’s Cashout program will enable employees to avail up to 40% of their paychecks as on-demand pay, with a maximum $ 500 limit. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports, nearly 37% of employers offer two-week pay to workers. This is an excellent way to allow financial freedom to the workers while keeping the cash flow at the company at a sustainable level. However, according to Nelson Lichtenstein, a history professor at the University of California Santa Barbara and director of the Center for the Study of Work, Labor, and Democracy, there are challenges associated with offering on-demand pay. He explains, “I think this creates more chaos and insecurities. If you get paid every day, you are scrambling every day.” He argues that offering pay every single day eradicates the built-in buffer that exists. However, a two-week on-demand pay solution is like forced savings that give individuals more freedom to plan how to spend money. It also is beneficial for budgeting. This is why a two-week model might be most beneficial compared to other solutions if you plan to offer on-demand pay to your employees. It provides the much-needed buffer to save while still enjoying the freedom to meet urgent expenses without taking out a loan. The pros and cons of on-demand pay On-demand pay has its advantages and disadvantages for both parties involved. The outcome depends on how and why you adopt on-demand pay for your organization. Advantages for employees 1. Creates financial equity for employees On-demand pay help workers better manage their finances whether they want to invest earned wages or need to pay for urgent auto repair. Expenses can occur at any time; with this mode of payment, employees can get their money sooner. This flexibility allows them to receive and save money on their own time. It is better for financial security as on-demand pay can help them meet unexpected bills or urgent expenditures to cover the expenses rapidly. As per Federal Reserve research , over 35% of adults would be unable to cover a $400 emergency bill. This is why many workers turn to payday loans when an emergency arises, but the high interest on search options further aggravates their financial instability. On-demand pay is a much more sustainable option. 2. Financial well-being leads to physical well-being Stress associated with financial instability can cause serious health consequences. Options like on-demand pay allow workers to maintain a good work/life balance and be more productive at work by reducing financial worries and stress. Providing employees more say over their remuneration improves their general quality of life. The drawbacks for employees 1. Fees On-demand pay has an additional fee, the same as paying ATM fees. It can be frustrating for employees to pay a fee for receiving their wages. 2. Taxes While most on-demand pay services don’t tax employee withdrawals, these transactions are still liable to taxation. Employers are required to detect these taxes from the upcoming paychecks making the final payout less than the employee anticipated. Benefits for employers 1. Better employee retention rates Employers who offer on-demand pay are seen as more caring by the workforce, improving their employer value. It helps with employee retention and attracts others to work for the organization. 2. More productive employees Personal finance issues are highly distracting for employees. When you offer on-demand pay, you provide employees with financial security and a sense of stability. This encourages and motivates them to be more productive at work. The cons of on-demand pay for employers 1. Pay errors On-demand pay dramatically increases the number of transactions for the payroll. There are chances that employees will receive paychecks that include paid on-demand hours. Such errors mean employers pay the wages twice. 2. Taxes As mentioned above, employers must deduct taxes on on-demand wages when they issue standard paychecks; failing to do so makes them liable to action from the IRS. How Truein can help employers? Truein is a cloud-based, hardwareless employee time and attendance software that features scheduling and overtime management. Managers and supervisors can use it to accurately calculate the work hours to ensure that employees are paid only once. As it easily integrates with most payroll systems, it can minimize the chances of pay errors. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope you now understand how on-demand pay work. It is a tool that, if implemented correctly, can help both employers and employees. It can significantly boost productivity by relieving employees of financial stress resulting in a more productive and better-engaged workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry May 24, 2024 Effective management is a critical requirement for delivering projects on time and within the stipulated budget in the construction industry. With over two-thirds of construction projects failing to reach the handover phase within the estimated budget, labor management in construction is mandatory. Table of Contents Why is labor management important? Tips for improving labor management in construction 1. Collaborate with the workers 2. Prioritize the health and safety of laborers 3. Choose a good workforce management software 4. Balance the skilled workers where required 5. Identify the issues that workers are facing 6. Give laborers all the tools and resource that is needed Conclusion Why is labor management important? In the construction industry, labor management is essential because it decides the company’s bottom line. The workforce is the most critical of all the resources utilized in a construction project. Laborers and skilled workers are required to keep units operation and projects on-site within budget and on schedule. This makes labor management in construction critical and requires a strategic approach. Managers must engage with laborers and workers individually to listen to their requirements and prioritize their needs. The laborers are directly responsible for the success and growth of a company in the construction industry. We share some helpful construction labor management techniques to help managers be better prepared to handle the workforce. Tips for improving labor management in construction 1. Collaborate with the workers Generally, a construction project involves several subcontractors who provide labor. Collaboration and good communication are necessary to ensure that all contractors are on the same page and there is an open line of communication with the workers. Construction projects are usually large, and proper construction labor management is necessary for the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the project. If you can facilitate seamless collaboration between the different groups of workers, then you will successfully minimize the errors that arise due to miscommunication. Also, any mistakes committed in construction work can be detected and corrected quickly and easily. It will prevent a domino effect that can cause project delays. 2. Prioritize the health and safety of laborers The construction industry is often marked with mishaps and accidents unless proper safety measures are taken. Labor management in construction must prioritize the health and safety of laborers. First, laborers must have reasonable working hours to ensure they are well-rested. A fatigued workforce will cause underperformance, and too much work will also reduce their cognitive abilities, which can lead to on-site accidents. Construction works involved operating heavy machines, handling hazardous materials, and working at dangerous heights. All of these risks pose a substantial danger to workers’ lives. Therefore it is mandatory to provide safety in the workplace. Project managers must have proper safety measures implemented at all construction sites. Furthermore, workers must cooperate by practicing safety measures. Laborers are more likely to stay with a company that emphasizes their safety. 3. Choose a good workforce management software Construction work needs long and tedious administrative work that involves accurately logging laborers’ time on the site, over time, daily reports, and estimates, managing a large number of workers, ensuring workers are present on-site when logging into the system, and much more. You will require reliable and efficient workforce management software to automate these tasks. Truein is a product of choice for many construction companies due to its robust, hardware-independent, and cloud-based time and attendance management application . Project managers can control attendance, overtime, report creation, leave management , shift scheduling, and much more using Truein. Workers can download the Truein app on their phones and clock in on-site. The core technology utilizes geofencing and GPS-tracking to ensure that workers are present on the designated site when they record their attendance. It is a highly efficient workforce management solution for the construction industry. It can save time and energy for project managers and HRs, reduce reporting and payroll errors, and decrease the overall construction labor management cost . Schedule a free demo today and try Truein in your organization. 4. Balance the skilled workers where required Invariably, there will be gaps in the workers’ skills when you hire them and what the project requires. An essential part of labor management in construction is creating an ecosystem to foster the development of the workers into skilled labor. This will require you to optimize the workforce utilization rate. Simply put, it means putting workers in roles that will develop their skills. 5. Identify the issues that workers are facing Construction site disputes can cause laborers to lose motivation. It can also create a hostile environment for workers, which must be avoided at all costs. The construction staff is a valuable asset for any company, and project managers must identify workers’ issues. With effective labor management techniques, it can be ensured that workers are not facing problems that are hindering their performance. 6. Give laborers all the tools and resource that is needed Another aspect of construction labor management is providing workers with the tools and resources they need to do their jobs smoothly. When allocating a budget to acquire new construction equipment, ask project managers what tools and resources are required to speed up the progress of the projects. Technology must be integrated with manual labor, which is why automated tools must be a priority. You must also think of the managers and provide them with tools to free them from repetitive paperwork and administrative tasks. Solutions like Truein free up management time for other responsibilities. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Labor management in construction is the stepping stone for a company. These labor management techniques in construction will take unpredictability out of the picture and improve your labor management approach. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 10 Construction Productivity and Efficiency Strategies To Improve Labor Output 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business May 24, 2024 Planning employees’ working hours according to the business requirements is necessary for any company. Unfortunately, a standard solution will not work, as each company has different requirements. For the mining industry, often round-the-clock work is required, while for manufacturing companies, extra work strength might be needed when there is increased demand. Maintaining sustainable shift patterns is beneficial not only for employers but also for employees. The shift schedules affect the day-to-day life of the workers, and unhealthy shift patterns can cause anxiety and lower productivity among workers. Managers must understand a shift pattern and create them to benefit the workforce. In this guide on shift patterns, we cover all these questions and more. Table of Contents What is a shift pattern? 5 Types of shift patterns 1. 2 shift 2. Night shifts 3. 4 on 4 off shift calendar 4. Staggered days 5. Rotating shifts Which shift patterns are popular? What is the best shift pattern? 1. 2 shift system: Best for manufacturing companies 2. Rotating shifts: Hospitality businesses 3. 4 on 4 off: Startups and business leaders How can you automatically maintain a shift pattern? Conclusion What is a shift pattern? The word shift pattern is often used interchangeably with shift schedule, but it is a broader term. A shift pattern is a unique combination of workers, working hours, schedules, and infrastructure that meet the company’s specific goals. Shift patterns are designed so that there are always enough workers available at any given time on the premises to ensure productivity is at an optimal level. The managers can create shift patterns depending on the company’s goals, available labor, and other resources. A company can require more than one shifting pattern depending on how the requirements for workers change. For instance, a factory might need a different shifting pattern when the production is unusually high. You must create the right kind of shift pattern that meets the requirements of the business and keeps the workforce satisfied and happier. 5 Types of shift patterns The ultimate goal of a shift pattern is to ensure that enough labor is available to keep services going or production at the optimum level at any given time. To achieve this, different shift patterns can be implemented. Here are different types of shift patterns usually implemented. 1. 2 shift It is a typical Monday to Friday shift pattern that is usually scheduled from 06:00-14:00 and 14:00-22:00. The staff is rotated once a week in this pattern. However, you can customize shift rotation depending on the company’s requirements. 2. Night shifts Night shift patterns are usually from 22:00-06:00. It is often combined with 2 shift patterns to ensure the availability of the workers 24×7. Night shifts are not usually preferred, so companies offer higher pay to encourage workers. You can speak with the workers to find out what shift they like and what compensation for night shifts can be. 3. 4 on 4 off shift calendar It is one of the most common rotating shifts that you will find in the construction and manufacturing industry. It relies on maintaining a fixed 12-hour shift for four consecutive days. The hard work is rewarded with four days off. 4. Staggered days In this shift pattern, workers work a 5 x 8 hours a day shift. It is usually spread over 6 or 7 days to ensure that weekends are covered for your company. In this shift pattern, workers get off during the week, not the weekend. The staggered day shift pattern is typical in the maintenance industry. 5. Rotating shifts Then we have the rotational model that can cover various schedules. It is a good option for companies with day and night shifts, such as construction. In the construction business, labor is often required around the clock. The rotating shift pattern allows to maintain the continuous work without stressing the workers. Which shift patterns are popular? Unsurprisingly, the traditional Monday to Friday-full-time shift pattern is the most popular. However, this is because of the large-scale adoption of this model. The actual answer varies from business to business. For instance, if you have a startup with a young and enthusiastic workforce, they would prefer longer hours for lesser days. In such a scenario, a 4 on 4 off shift pattern will encourage them to provide their best for 12 hours daily. Manufacturing and construction companies that employ a large number of workers prefer 2 shift pattern to ensure that workers are available in each shift and there is some time to hand over the work when the new shift begins. Our advice for managers is to engage with supervisors who work closely with laborers to know what work schedule they would prefer. Then the feedback can be matched with the business requirements to create an optimal shift pattern. What is the best shift pattern? There is no simple answer. Every shift pattern has its relevance depending on the industry and the type of workforce it employs. Let’s take a look at some of the best shift patterns. 1. 2 shift system: Best for manufacturing companies Companies that need to operate for long periods and require intense concentration can implement 2 shift system. As workers are liable to work for 8 hours, they can maintain their focus on creating products of the best quality. Also, some manufacturing companies have restrictions on working times for health and safety reasons. They can benefit from this shift pattern. 2. Rotating shifts: Hospitality businesses Establishments like hotels, restaurants, and leisure centers can have rotating shifts to allow their staff plans their personal lives. As this shift pattern has flexibility and familiarity, hospitality workers can better plan their day as they are aware of the shift changes a week before. 3. 4 on 4 off: Startups and business leaders It is the least common shift pattern and is reportedly used by new-age startups and some business leaders to work intensively without feeling burned out. How can you automatically maintain a shift pattern? Shift pattern creation and maintenance are complex. There are several factors to consider and even more variables as workers are involved. Automatic shift schedule management is the most efficient way to ensure the success of a shift pattern within your company, irrespective of the industry. Truein, an AI-based face recognition attendance system with shift scheduling, can help HR automatically maintain shift patterns. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less workforce management application with advanced shift scheduling features. Truein allows managers to track the attendance and availability of workers at any time. Staff can request shift changes using the Truein app. Besides shift scheduling, it offers leave and overtime management and easily integrates with payroll software. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate your shift scheduling and attendance management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Shift patterns are essential for the operational needs of any business. We hope this guide served you best in understanding what a shift pattern is and how you can choose the best type from the shift pattern examples we shared. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? May 24, 2024 For your company, an employee missing work for a day must not be an issue of concern. However, if it becomes a regular thing, then you are at risk of impacting bottom lines. Most managers deal with frequent leaves in a stringent manner which could be more conducive to a positive work environment. We understand that staff attendance is necessary to keep productivity and profits in control. There can be different reasons for absence, and as a project manager, it is essential to show compassion toward the individual circumstances of workers and laborers. An organization has limited influence on the employees outside of work hours. An employer can’t deal with personal issues; however, if there is a significant employee attendance shortage, you must know how to improve employee attendance. This article highlights ways to tackle the poor employee attendance issue. Table of Contents Six ways to improve employee attendance 1. Tell employees about your expectation 2. Create a clear attendance policy 3. Look for causes of poor attendance 4. Reward employees with good attendance 5. Offer flexibility in work schedule 6. Track time and attendance at work Conclusion Six ways to improve employee attendance 1. Tell employees about your expectation The workplace environment determines the acceptance level of frequent employee absences. In companies, if absence from work is not getting enough attention from the managers, it can set a wrong precedence for workers and laborers. Workers must know the employee attendance policy and the company’s expectations. For instance, in the construction industry, you must inform workers about the high-pressure environment when they join your workforce. Inform them that they can be expected to work long days when necessary. Taking absences for anything other than family emergencies or illness is not acceptable. This is the right approach, as employees will understand what kind of workplace culture they are part of. This will set them on the right path to take a few absences. 2. Create a clear attendance policy Most human resource managers wonder how to improve attendance in the workplace when too many workers are taking time off. The first administrative step towards improving staff attendance is to create and implement a clear attendance policy. Your company’s attendance policy must comprehensively describe the scope and expectations of the workers. It must also include the procedure to ask for a leave and the consequences of poor attendance. Your company’s attendance policy can vary depending on the industry and workforce strength. We already have a detailed guide on how to create a worker-friendly attendance policy . 3. Look for causes of poor attendance Poor attendance is not always an attitude problem but often a result of a more significant problem. If a worker needs to maintain good attendance, the managers and supervisors must determine the cause of poor attendance. Apart from injury or illness, there can be other factors, such as conflict with co-workers or supervisors, or issues with the working environment, such as heavy workload, skill mismatch, absence of proper tools and resources, etc. Before jumping to any disciplinary action, it is essential to explore improving employee attendance by fixing the underlying cause. Take your time to determine the root cause of poor attendance so you can take proper action under labor law. 4. Reward employees with good attendance Appreciation and acknowledgment go a long way in encouraging workers to give their best at work. You create a positive work culture when you balance the consequences of poor attendance with good attendance rewards. A simple reward program can take out the most significant roadblock, letting employees know that their punctuality and sincerity are being noticed. A reward program is enough for workers to keep doing what is expected – coming to work. 5. Offer flexibility in work schedule Not feasible for all companies, but you can offer flexibility in their work schedule. For instance, you can create multiple shifts at your manufacturing company to allow workers to switch shift schedules if they have any personal requirements to attend to. When workers have the flexibility to switch their shifts with co-workers and organically eliminate call-offs due to unexpected personal issues. Such flexibility should be properly documented and approved by the management so that workers can use it while managers can track and monitor such schedules. 6. Track time and attendance at work How to improve attendance in the workplace if you need to be made aware of the accuracy of the attendance data? If you want to improve staff attendance, then you need to be systematic about it. An efficient time and attendance tracking software will provide the necessary tool to monitor attendance and treat workers fairly. It is also helpful in ensuring that there is no favoritism at play and all workers are given an equal chance to take a leave if there is an emergency. It is not unusual for managers to play favorites, creating conflicts and resentment among co-workers. Truein is a robust cloud-based and hardware-less time and attendance management application that companies across industries can use to maintain fairness and improve employee absences. It uses an AI-based face recognition system to identify workers to record attendance, ensuring no malpractice such as Buddy punching or time theft . Managers can access all attendance data of the workers from the central dashboard and create flexible shift schedules. Creating Shift Schedules in Truein Even you can implement an attendance policy for the company within the Truein dashboard. Workers can request a shift switch with a co-worker, and managers are notified to approve such a request. Adding Different Attendance Policies In Truein Truein provides a good starting point to improve staff attendance by tracking absences and allowing managers to monitor staff attendance in real time. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein Attendance System in your organization! “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Before tackling the employee attendance problem within your company, it is essential to learn the root cause. Data is an invaluable asset here to improve staff attendance. We recommend using time and attendance software like Truein to track workers’ hours and leaves. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs Time Tracking Software for Construction That Will Boost Productivity Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Payroll Management »  					Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide May 20, 2024 Running a business requires effort on all fronts. You must ensure that production is always at optimum level and that workers are satisfied with the company culture. Another critical aspect of managing a company is safeguarding against defrauding activities like payroll fraud. Stealing within an organization can take place in many ways, such as stealing raw materials and machinery, infrastructure vandalism, and time theft . However, payroll fraud is the toughest to detect because it’s often concealed. In its simplest form, payroll fraud involves an employee or the employer manipulating the payroll system within the organization to take the money they are not entitled to. For small and medium businesses, payroll fraud can be a significant obstacle. Such companies must be protected against payroll fraud schemes because payroll frauds are two times more likely to happen at small and medium-sized companies than at larger organizations. It can take multiple routes, from misclassifying employees to using ghost employees . We created this complete guide on payroll fraud to help you understand how it affects the business and what payroll fraud prevention methods you can implement. Table of Contents What is payroll fraud? Six different types of payroll fraud 1. Misclassification 2. Timesheet fraud 3. Ghost payroll 4. Third-party payroll scams 5. Workers’ compensation fraud 6. Commission schemes How to detect payroll fraud Can you take legal action against employees for payroll fraud? How to prevent payroll fraud? 1. Use tools to avoid timesheet fraud 2. Understand staff classification 3. reate clear workers’ compensation policies Conclusion What is payroll fraud? Payroll fraud occurs when an individual illicitly changes the company’s payroll system to manipulate the calculation of employee compensation to their own benefit. It’s a crime that employers or employees can commit. Staff commits payroll fraud by indulging in malpractices like time theft when they clock in the hours that they do not work. Some employees secretly increase their compensation rate by manipulating the payroll system, which can amount to payroll fraud. Employers can commit this fraud by withholding the wages of the workers. This way, they benefit from what they owe to the staff. Simply put, payroll fraud is a mechanism that one of the parties utilizes to enrich themselves by deceitfully stealing from the other. Six different types of payroll fraud As we mentioned before, payroll fraud can take several forms. As an HR manager, you must know the most common types of payroll fraud. Here are some common payroll frauds that can be avoided by being vigilant. 1. Misclassification Workers provide different classifications depending on the number of hours they work, their job role, their relationship with the company, and other details. For instance, workers are often classified as full-time, part-time, or contract workers. When employees misclassify their status in the payroll system, they steal the benefits they are not entitled to. Sometimes, employers misclassify workers willingly to save costs like unemployment taxes, staff benefits, and payroll taxes. Any intentional misclassification is termed payroll fraud and makes the employer or the employee liable for legal consequences. 2. Timesheet fraud In companies, timesheet fraud is the most common type of payroll fraud. When workers manipulate the working time that they record in the timesheet to get paid for more hours than they worked, workers can commit timesheet fraud by padding the work hours by clocking in extra hours in the timesheet. Also, they may access the payroll system to falsify their wages and increase their hourly pay rates. 3. Ghost payroll When companies pay nonexistent staff unwittingly, it is termed ghost payroll. This payroll fraud is typically committed by someone in human resources who has easy access to the organization’s payroll system. The perpetrators of this type of payroll fraud create fake staff in the payroll system or do not remove the staff any longer employed with the company. In doing so, they falsify the employment records to keep collecting money from the organization in the form of the ghost employee’s paycheck. 4. Third-party payroll scams Some payroll frauds can also be committed externally. Often, employers think payroll frauds can be committed only internally, but scams like W-2 and payroll diversion schemes have third-party perpetrators. A W-2 scam is a sophisticated type of cyberattack where a cybercriminal tricks employees or HR managers into handling sensitive employee information. The perpetrators use this information, including employee ID, income records, and other sensitive data, to file fraudulent tax returns. In a payroll diversion scam, perpetrators manipulate the staff into changing their direct deposit information. While workers think that the paychecks are cashed into their bank accounts, the money is transferred to cyber criminals. This type of payroll fraud is often committed by sending staff fraudulent emails or hacking into a company’s payroll system. 5. Workers’ compensation fraud One of the frequently faced payroll fraud schemes in the construction and mining industry, worker’s compensation fraud, is when a worker fakes an injury or falsely claims that an injury occurred at work to collect workers’ compensation. This type of payroll fraud can badly impact self-insured companies. Alternatively, this can have a worse impact on the insurance companies that may resume the rise of workers’ insurance premiums. 6. Commission schemes Some employees may receive bonuses or commissions attached to their sales targets. Also, some companies offer incentives to contractual workers for hitting milestones such certain percentage of project completion. The aim of providing such incentives is to encourage staff to work harder and excel at their jobs. But, some staff may figure out loopholes in the commission schemes to avail the commissions or bonuses they didn’t earn honestly. This is a commission scheme fraud which is punishable as payroll fraud. Another type of commission fraud is committed by contractors who agree to provide a certain number of workers on site but avail fewer workers saving on the labor cost while charging companies for the agreed number of workers. While these are some of the most common payroll frauds, there can be other types of employer payroll frauds depending on your organization’s business model and payroll system. The only way to be secured against such fraud is to know how to detect them. How to detect payroll fraud Payroll fraud schemes are notoriously difficult to cover. As there are several compliance laws that a company must follow, it becomes easier to identify such frauds if your organization continues to implement compliance policies stringently. However, there is always scope for human error. Also, as technology improves, cybercriminals are carrying out extremely sophisticated payroll frauds that can be difficult to identify. The financial implications can be devastating if it continues for a long time. According to the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners , a typical payroll fraud scheme lasts 24 months. There is no simple solution to detect payroll fraud schemes. There is no definite indicator of payroll fraud, but some red flags that can help you with payroll fraud prevention. Errors or gaps in payroll records are the first signs of payroll scams. You must be diligent with payroll records auditing. Any unexplained changes in the payroll records also indicate an attempt to commit fraud. Staff listing identical addresses or bank account details in their records might be attempting to commit payroll fraud. Unexpected emails were sent to staff regarding payroll without the knowledge of managers. There are unaccounted transactions in the company account which has no valid source. This can be committed by cybercriminals having access to the payroll system. These are some of the warning signs that must be acted upon immediately. Remember, there are several types of payroll fraud, and it is essential to regularly review your company’s payroll and accounting records for discrepancies. Modern payroll software has built-in features to detect any anomalous activity related to payroll records. Furthermore, payroll automation is the best way to identify any irregularities sooner and save monetary loss to the business. Can you take legal action against employees for payroll fraud? There can be several payroll fraud schemes, but the severity level is also varied. Whether it is a felony or not depends on the law of the state where payroll fraud is committed. However, the more money a fraudster steams from the company, the harsher the legal consequences. An employer can file a lawsuit against any employee who commits payroll fraud. Employers can sue to recover the stolen money and seek punishment as per the law against fraud. As payroll fraud falls under the purview of labor laws, you will have to consult your local lawyer to fully understand the legal actions you can take against such fraud. Employers and employees have legal rights to sue for back pay if their employer has illegally withheld their wages. But it would be best to act quickly when you find out that your employer is committing payroll fraud. According to law, the stature of limitations is two years for unintentional wage violations and three years for intentional wage violations to report any payroll fraud committed by the employer against the workers. How to prevent payroll fraud? Prevention is better than cure. This is why you must take the steps necessary for payroll fraud prevention. While lawsuits and recovery of stolen money are secondary steps, first, you must ensure all measures are taken to mitigate fraud. 1. Use tools to avoid timesheet fraud You must ditch paper or excel timesheets and switch to automated staff time and attendance management software like Truein. Truein is a state-of-the-art staff attendance management software that’s cloud-based. It uses face recognition and AI to recognize staff and record work hours. Its temper-proof engineering ensures no manipulation of the attendance or overtime records. Furthermore, Truein integrates with most payroll software that ensures no timesheet fraud is committed at any level. It also eliminates buddy punching and offers advanced features such as leave management , attendance policy, contract worker management, and real-time staff tracking. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Understand staff classification As a manager, you must understand staff classification. Misclassifying staff not only has financial implications but is also against the law. For instance, IRS’ Employer’s Supplemental Tax Guide for worker classification guidelines severely penalizes workers for misclassification. 3. reate clear workers’ compensation policies Create clear policies around reporting workplace injuries. Your workers must know who to report workplace injuries to, when, and how. Install security cameras at work sites so that any potential workplace injuries are recorded as evidence. It is how you can prevent workers’ compensation fraud. Conclusion Payroll fraud is a felony punishable by law, but its financial implications on the overall business can be devastating. It can happen to small and large companies, which is why there must be measures for payroll fraud prevention and early detection. As the consequences can be more than loss of money and can result in privacy invasion, you must implement the solutions we have shared in this guide. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers March 31, 2024 Every once in a while, workers call in sick. For a company, it is obligatory to allow them time to recover from sickness. It works for the benefit of both workers and employers. This is why federal and local regulations have a provision for sick leaves. Failing to comply with the rules makes an organization susceptible to fines and legal actions. We created this detailed sick leave policy guide to help companies and managers understand what it is and why it is mandatory to maintain. Table of Contents What is sick leave? What are the rules regarding sick leave policy in different countries? Sick leave rules in India Additional paid sick days laws: Sick day policy in the US Sick leave as per the UAE Labour law Does sick leave have to be paid? Sick Leave for Contract Employees What to include in a sick leave policy? A sick leave policy sample/template Scope Policy elements How do sick days work? Unused sick leave policy Procedure Should employers ask to provide a doctor's note as proof of illness? Do employers have to pay for unused sick leave? How to implement and manage sick leave policy? Conclusion FAQs 1. How does paid sick leave benefit an organization? What is sick leave? Sick leave is paid leave that companies provide to workers when they feel unwell or ill. These leaves are not part of the paid vacation time, and every employer has to offer it mandatorily to the workers as per the law. Sick leaves are also titled medical leave, sickness absence, or sick days in company policies. Depending on the company’s location and the local laws, the employers’ obligations and employees’ entitlements to the sick leave policy differ. When managers create the employee sick leave policy, they must consider several factors, such as how many sick days employees can take, how much the company can pay them for sick days, and the eligibility criteria. There is often a difference between the sick leave policy and procedure for short-term and long-term illnesses. What are the rules regarding sick leave policy in different countries? Laws are present in all countries that make statutory sick leave compulsory at all companies. Employers must comply with these regulations and provide workers with paid sick days per local law. Sick leave rules in India Most of the sick day policies at a company/organization are set under the State’s Shops and Establishment Act. But there are other applicable laws specific to the role or the industry. As per the Indian Shops and Establishment Act , sick leave policies must provide the following: Minimum 0.5 to maximum seven days (paid) sick leaves For sick days, extending three days, employers can ask for a medical certificate Sick leaves can be appended with earned leaves Sick days are not carry-forwards or encashments and lapse automatically at the end of the calendar year Additional paid sick days laws: Apprentices Act, 1961 – Section 15 (Rule 13) makes it mandatory that interns or apprentices can avail of medical leave for a maximum period of 15 days in a year and, in case of accumulated leave, up to 40 days in a year. Plantation Labour Act, 1951 – Section 32 governs the sick leave policy for employees in the plantation industry and entitles workers to get sick leave by company policies. Working Journalist and Other News Paper Employee’s (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 suggests that employees will be eligible for one month of medical leave for every 18 months of service and will be paid half the wages. Sales Promotion Employees (Conditions of Service) Act, 1976 – Section 4, any employees under this act can have a sick leave of not less than one-eighteenth of the service period at half the wages. Sick day policy in the US In the United States, currently, there are no federal legal requirements for paid sick leave. However, for companies under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) , unpaid sick leaves must be provided to workers. According to FMLA, employers must provide up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for certain medical situations for workers or their immediate family members. Also, companies can substitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA sick day leaves. Workers who have worked with their current employer for at least 12 months are eligible for FMLA leaves and must have worked for at least 1,250 hours over the previous 12 months. Sick leave as per the UAE Labour law Under the UAE Labour law , a worker is entitled to sick leaves of not more than 90 days per year at the end of the probation period. The 90 days’ sick leave can be continuous or intermittent, and the salary paid will be as follows: full payment for the first 15 days half pay for the next 30 days no pay for the rest 45 days However, workers can get sick leave without pay, subject to the approval of the employer and based on a medical report issued by the medical body recognized by the government. Does sick leave have to be paid? As clearly highlighted in the above section, the rules regarding paid sick days differ per country and state. In India, paid sick days must be provided to workers for seven days as per the Shops and Establishment Act, but additional provisions depend on local laws. For US employees, there is no provision for paid sick days. The employees who themselves or their immediate family members falling under the FMLA Act are allowed unpaid sick leaves by the law. The UAE Labour Law is most generous, making it mandatory for companies to offer up to 30 paid sick days to the workers. Sick Leave for Contract Employees Sick leave for contract employees can vary depending on the specific terms outlined in their contract and the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction they are working in. Unlike permanent employees, contract employees may not always have access to the same benefits, including sick leave. What to include in a sick leave policy? A comprehensive and employee-friendly sick leave policy outlines the company’s code for employees who are ill and are unable to attend work. Your company’s sick leave policy must include: The scope explains how sick leaves work. Rules regarding unused sick leaves. The procedure to apply for sick leaves. A sick leave policy sample/template Our company’s sick leave policy outlines our company’s provisions for employees who become sick and need to be absent from work. The following sample policy specifies how sick leave will be accrued and how it may be used. Scope This company sick leave policy applies to all our employees who have been with our company for at least [X months.] Policy elements Our workers may only be able to perform their duties if they get sick. Our company follows legal guidelines that may apply to sick leaves and pay to provide a healthy work environment. We’ll also offer [X days] of [paid/ partially paid] sick leave. This leave is separate from other types like maternity leave and Paid Time Off (PTO). How do sick days work? Our workers can take sick leave when they want to: Recover from sudden illness Recover from accidents/injuries Receive mental/psychological care or counseling when necessary Employees who want to attend routine healthcare (e.g., doctor’s/dentist’s appointments) should use their PTO. Unused sick leave policy Employees will receive [X] additional day/s every [1 year] working for our company. Depending on the law, employees can accumulate unused sick leave until it reaches a certain number of days. Unused sick time may be calculated for employees’ annuity when they retire. Procedure When workers want to use their sick time, they should notify their supervisor as soon as possible. They should also inform the supervisor for how long they’ll be absent (if possible) or report daily for every day of sick leave. Under certain circumstances, employees might need to submit a physician’s note or other medical certification and/or complete a sick leave form. Those circumstances include but are not limited to the following: Being absent for more than [X days] on sick leave. Cases when a pattern arises result in auditing the sick leave application (e.g., employees plead sick at a specific time each week.) The company will handle all sick time requests with discretion. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Should employers ask to provide a doctor's note as proof of illness? Usually, managers should only ask for proof of illness if the workers apply for an extended leave or if managers see a pattern originating. It is not uncommon for workers to exploit the company’s sick days policy. If you find a worker asking for sick leaves repeatedly, you can ask for proof of illness. Unless necessary, it is better to avoid asking for illness proof to show that you trust workers’ ethics and sincerity. Do employers have to pay for unused sick leave? Employers must provide paid sick days to workers if the company is registered or operating in India or UAE. However, there is no provision forcing employers to pay for unused sick leaves. It is entirely at employers’ discretion if they choose to pay for unused sick leaves. How to implement and manage sick leave policy? Depending on your industry and the workforce size, there are several ways to implement a sick leave policy. Most large organizations have human resource management systems for maintaining such policies, but companies in industries like manufacturing, construction, mining, retail, and facility management require more efficient solutions. Truein is a hardware-less, cloud-based time and attendance management solution that offers comprehensive leave management features . It is already trusted by over 300 brands across 25 countries for improved workforce management. It allows managers to implement leave policies easily and do month-end calculations. Not just for sick leaves, Truein has a robust leave management process for managing daily/hourly leaves, carry forward leaves, or customized leaves. You can also enable the sandwich leave policy to auto club usual week offs with the paid leaves. Sandwich leave feature in Truein Companies can set up a multi-level approval paradigm to ensure that the sick leave policy is rightfully implemented. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the leave and attendance management process in your organization. Conclusion A sick leave policy is not just a formal requirement but a mechanism to create a healthy work environment for workers and foster positive employer-employee relationships. A company must maintain and implement a sick days policy to provide workers with a clear idea of the company’s sick leave policy and procedure and stay compliant with the law. This sick leave policy guide will guide you through creating a comprehensive policy for your organization in compliance with the law. FAQs 1. How does paid sick leave benefit an organization? Providing sick leave is beneficial from an organization’s point of view as it reduces the spread of disease at the workplace or in the community. As well as, it increases employee productivity and improves employee retention in the organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? 13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Time Management Tips To Increase Productivity In The Workplace Time Management Tips To Increase Productivity In The Workplace May 28, 2024 Time management is an invaluable skill that your workers might lack. An essential part of workforce management is strategizing workplace time management policies to ensure productivity. As a manager, it becomes your responsibility to ensure workers respect the time management policies of the company and give their best at work. But how will the workforce commit to time management when unaware of the principles? This is why you must know time management techniques at the workplace to facilitate a work-life balance for the employees. In this article, we will explore some tips to manage time at the workplace better. Table of Contents What is time management? Five tips for managing time at the workplace 1. See where you are spending your time 2. Create work schedules 3. Set time limits for tasks 4. Avoid doing multiple tasks at one time 5. Use a time-tracking tool Conclusion What is time management? For most workers, there seems to be insufficient time to complete the tasks within a shift. However, unless you are overly planning the workload, employees should be able to accomplish their tasks without struggling with the deadlines. Most probably, your employees are not aware of what time management is. You must explain it to them like we are defining it here. Time management is simply organizing and planning the amount of time within a shift to be divided among specific activities based on priority. Workers must allot the right time to the suitable activity effectively to be most productive. Productivity is a direct byproduct of efficient time management. Workers’ failure to manage their time can affect their productivity and the company’s bottom line. So how do you help workers with time management? Here are a few solutions. Five tips for managing time at the workplace 1. See where you are spending your time It is relatively easy for workers to lose track of time if they are not mindful of how they spend it at work. One of the most effective time management strategies for the workplace is to train your employees to be aware of how they spend their time. Supervisors can help workers prioritize their tasks based on the day’s requirements. When workers know how they will spend their time on each job, they are more likely to be on track to use their time efficiently. It will also help if you put workers with similar tasks on the same shift as they will be spending time on similar jobs and can keep track. 2. Create work schedules One of the most crucial time management techniques at the workplace is creating work schedules that ensure workers are most productive throughout the day. Simply put, work schedules must help employees finish the most pressing tasks in the early hours of their shifts. You can also encourage workers to maintain a shift schedule to-do list to manage their shifts better. You can also create a general work schedule that you can put on the floor for workers to refer to. When you put everything on paper, there is no confusion or anxiety among workers, and they know what tasks they need to perform during the day and in what order. For instance, if you manage a car assembly line, you can create a to-do list for the assembly line workers to follow. This will ensure they follow the plan instead of jumping between tasks. 3. Set time limits for tasks Unsurprisingly, if you leave workers to decide how much time they take for a specific task, things are never completed on time. Setting time limits for tasks is another efficient time management strategy for the workplace. You have created a to-do list for everyday tasks and prioritized them in order of urgency. The next step is to set time limits to keep operations smooth and flowing. You can decide how much time should be committed to a task before workers can take a break. For instance, machine operators in the manufacturing unit can be offered a 15 minutes break after every two hours of machine operation. This will provide enough buffer to dissipate stress from two continuous working hours and keep workers productive. This technique is known to help keep focus with the help of frequent breaks by reducing mental strain and maintaining motivation. 4. Avoid doing multiple tasks at one time It would help if you proactively informed workers that doing multiple tasks simultaneously will not make them more productive. We humans inherently expect that multitasking is one of the best management techniques in the workplace. Unfortunately, numerous clinical studies suggest that multitasking never works. Studies have shown that when workers switch between several tasks, they become less efficient and are more likely to commit errors. Managers and supervisors must encourage workers to focus on the job and not think about other distractions. You can discourage multitasking behavior by creating work schedules so that a limited number of tasks are given to workers, so they are relaxed about doing several things at once. Similarly, avoid sharing long to-do lists with workers as it can easily overwhelm them. 5. Use a time-tracking tool What can be measured can be improved. Hence, you can only expect to ensure time management at the workplace by tracking employee work hours. Managers and supervisors must know the work schedules, events, tasks, milestones, etc. A time tracking tool can help you know how workers spend their time at work. You can remain in control of shift schedules and quickly identify time management issues such as absenteeism and time theft . Truein is an excellent time and attendance software that can boast time management at the workplace. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less time-tracking solution that can be deployed on workers’ phones. Truein features geofencing and GPS-tracking to track employees in real time. It is essential for managers to ensure that workers are at their designated places during work hours. Apart from time management, this attendance management system also features leave management , overtime management, policy management, reporting, and advanced analytics. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein time and attendance software in your organization. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Time management is beneficial for employers and employees equally. It ensures workers are productive throughout their shifts without undue stress on workload. At the same time, employers can ensure that business operations and production meet the goals and deadlines every time. Implement these time management techniques at the workplace to facilitate your workers in accomplishing high productivity. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Increase Productivity and Efficiency in Manufacturing Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions July 1, 2024 As a business owner or manager at a large organization, you might often have to deal with employees who are late to work. To ensure proper time management and discourage unproductive behavior in the workforce, you must know how to handle late employees. This responsibility requires you to be ready to handle difficult situations where you must take necessary steps to stop their tardiness quickly. It becomes mandatory, primarily if the tardiness of a few employees is disrupting daily workplace activities resulting in conflicts among workers. But you must be careful and wisely decide how to handle employees late for work. It is only sometimes on purpose, and there may be unknown circumstances for continuous tardiness. Your worker might have childcare or medical responsibilities, which is why they are always late. Even hostile work environments or workplace bullies can also be the cause. Ultimately, as a manager, it is your responsibility to deal with latecomers at work, irrespective of the reason. For some businesses, a late workforce can wreak havoc, as a survey by the Heathrow Express found. According to the study, employee lateness costs the UK economy around £9 billion annually. It was noticed that traffic-related issues were responsible for 41% of tardiness cases, closely followed by transportation delays (29%) and unforeseen circumstances (25%). Table of Contents Seven tips for dealing with late employees 1. Talk to them as soon as possible 2. Set your expectations clearly 3. Create a late-coming policy 4. Be open to listening to the reason and providing assistance if needed 5. Praise them when their behavior is improved 6. Allow flexible work schedule 7. Use attendance system What disciplinary action you can take on late employees? Conclusion Seven tips for dealing with late employees Now that we understand that tardiness, if not appropriately addressed, can result in severe consequences for your business, it’s essential to provide tips on handling an employee who is always late. Let’s get started. 1. Talk to them as soon as possible As soon as you notice a pattern of tardiness, speak to the worker without delay. It is essential to be proactive in addressing the situation to set a clear tone that this kind of behavior will not be accepted in the workplace. Often, managers ignore a worker’s excessive tardiness long enough that they eventually react in anger. When you are responsible for your team, it is plausible that you will lose your cool and respond in a manner that can be termed as threatening to the employee. We don’t want that. Workers must be encouraged to discontinue arriving late continuously at work. However, it must be done strategically. You must schedule a time to talk with them at work face to face. Ensure that you have documentation of the worker’s tardiness when confronting them about the issue. It would help if you started a dialogue by asking them why they report late to work. 2. Set your expectations clearly Employee lateness is an inevitable part of owning a business or running a company. To minimize the chances of uncomfortable confrontations with workers who are always late, you can set the expectations clear from the beginning. You must inform the staff members of what is expected of them and that they know the shift timings and potential disciplinary actions that can be taken if they are chronically late. The easiest way to convey this information is to mention it in your company’s attendance policy . When employees are aware of the company’s stance on punctuality and have been chronically late to work can affect their employment, there are more likely to abide by work timing requirements. The habitually late employees should be informed that they must change their behavior or face disciplinary actions per the company policies. Again, it would help if you made facts available using dates and times when the worker was late. This will ensure there is understanding in communication. 3. Create a late-coming policy While you can include information about tardiness and the resulting consequences of your company’s attendance policy, maintaining a separate late-coming policy is much more effective. It would help if you used the late-coming policy to outline rules for being on time, including expectations for where the workers should clock in. This policy should be comprehensive and highlight the number of times an employee can be laid before it becomes an actionable offense resulting in disciplinary action from the management. Furthermore, detailed information about the corrective actions that will be taken to handle employees late for work must be included. While discussing with a worker who is constantly tardy at work, share this information in an email and other documents highlighting the consequences. 4. Be open to listening to the reason and providing assistance if needed There may be valid reasons why a worker is late regularly. Before concluding, ask the right questions to determine the root cause of the issue. Companies that lack employee engagement or recognition of fun deal with tardiness. Ensure that you are not committing the same mistake. Allowing workers to pitch in their voices and, if the reasons are genuinely concerning, then work on solutions to troubleshoot the issue. It is not only about how to handle late employees but how to tackle the reason behind such behavior. 5. Praise them when their behavior is improved If you notice an improvement in their behavior, offer praise. You must do it privately to avoid drawing attention to the issue or the progress. Acknowledgment is a great motivator, and when you compliment the employee for dropping their tardiness, you reinforce their positive behavior. As a proactive step, you can offer monthly/yearly rewards to your employees or setup an employee recognition program . Punctual and taking their jobs seriously. There is a psychological impact on chronically late employees when they see their coworkers receiving rewards for their punctuality. This approach encourages late employees to be on time. 6. Allow flexible work schedule Flexibility in the work schedule can be an option to handle employees who were offered late for work. For instance, you can decide when a worker can clock in. Suppose you allow workers to come in late by 30 minutes, then make it a policy that they have to work 30 minutes more to complete their shift. This flexibility in the work schedule will allow the scope to accommodate reasons such as traffic and public transportation issues. It will also build mutual respect and understanding between the employer and employees. The level of flexibility you can offer will depend on your business model, but every company should offer this option. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 7. Use attendance system Ultimately, you can use good employee time-tracking software to recognize any patterns of tardiness in the workforce quickly. An efficient employee time and attendance tracking software can help you keep track of your employees’ work time and find out how frequently they are late to work. Truein is one such efficient employee time and attendance management system . It is a cloud-based, hardware-independent solution for tracking employee time. You can use Truein to track the time and attendance of full-time employees and contractual and distributed workers. It supports policy creation and has 70+ policy templates you can customize per your company’s requirements. Schedule a free demo today and automate the leave and attendance management in your organization. What disciplinary action you can take on late employees? Disciplinary action for late employees can vary depending on the policies and procedures of the company. Here are some common steps that may be taken: Verbal Warning: The first step may be to give the employee a verbal warning, reminding them of the company’s expectations and their lateness’s impact on the organization. Written Warning: If the employee continues to be late, a written warning may be issued. This document should include details about the employee’s delay, the consequences of continued lateness, and a timeframe for improvement. Suspension: If the employee’s tardiness persists, a suspension may be necessary. This could be for a short period, such as one or two days, or longer, depending on the severity of the situation. Termination: If the employee’s lateness continues despite previous disciplinary actions, termination may be the only option. This should be a last resort and only be taken after all other options have been exhausted. It’s important to note that any disciplinary action should be taken under the company’s policies and procedures, and all employees should be treated fairly and consistently. Additionally, the focus should always be on correcting the behavior and improving performance rather than punishing the employee. Conclusion It is always challenging to handle chronically late employees. However, to ensure positive work culture and prevent a negative impact on the bottom line, it is essential to know how to handle late employees. You must follow through with the tips shared in this guide. You must execute the disciplinary actions consistently if the worker fails to correct their behavior. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 01, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 01, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 01, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 01, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 01, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity Human Resource Management Problems and Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? May 28, 2024 Business management requires utilizing available resources for maximum efficiency. Your workers are one of the most critical resources, and workforce management is essential to ensure your business is profitable. For any organization, the time a worker spends on a particular task translates into the company’s output when adjusted for the salary paid. You must have measures in place to accurately monitor employee time and attendance. Every year, time theft costs employers billions of dollars in lost revenue. Among the most widely adopted solutions, the biometric attendance system is one. This article will explore biometric attendance systems and how they work. We will analyze the scope of such attendance systems and how we can overcome the limitations. Table of Contents What is a biometric attendance system? How does biometric attendance system work? 5 Benefits of using a biometric attendance system 1. Eliminates time theft 2. Highly accurate as compared to other attendance systems 3. Prevents buddy punching 4. Automates the payroll process 5. No hardware or physical contact required Which industries should use a biometric attendance system? Conclusion What is a biometric attendance system? A biometric attendance system is a hardware-based or software-based solution to record employee attendance using biometric data such as fingerprints, iris, hand geometry recognition, face recognition, etc. As compared to traditional employee time and attendance systems, biometric solutions provide an advanced layer of security because they utilize specific attributes that are unique to an individual. In doing so, a biometric system eliminates the possibility of malpractices like buddy punching , in which a co-worker can clock in for a colleague using their time card. The biometric attendance systems are a significant upgrade to the existing time cards; however, their reliance on hardware limits their robustness and safety in a post-pandemic era. Software-based biometric attendance systems overcome this limitation with their robust and cloud-based design. How does biometric attendance system work? A biometric attendance system utilizes sensors to record and match the unique biometric attributes of the employees with the data in the database to allow clocking in and out of the workplace. As we mentioned before, these attendance systems are entirely dependent on hardware for performance. How the employee biometric attendance system works depends on the type of attribute it uses to identify workers. For instance, a fingerprint biometric attendance system uses sensors to scan the fingerprint of the workers. It then maps these on various coordinates defined within the system and compares them to the fingerprint data stored in the database. Each biometric entry is converted into a unique code that one person can only enter. This eliminates any possibility of using another employee as a proxy. The accuracy of a biometric attendance system is very high. However, it requires a clean environment for sensors to work as they cannot correctly read fingerprints and other biometric data. The existing hardware-based biometric systems are facing tough competition from software-based employee time and attendance systems. The new-age hardware-less attendance systems are cloud-based and can be remotely deployed at any work location. Furthermore, these systems do not use only sensors to read biometric data. They use advanced AI-based tech like face recognition that makes them much more suitable for hostile work conditions such as high temperatures in the mining field, humid environments of manufacturing units, and dirt-filled construction sites. Their touchless approach makes them a lot more accurate. 5 Benefits of using a biometric attendance system 1. Eliminates time theft This is the most significant benefit of using a biometric staff attendance management system in your company. Time theft is a common problem that costs companies a lot of money as they have to pay for the hour’s workers are not working. Even if you have an upstanding and honorable workforce, there can be times when some workers are involved in time theft. To discourage such behavior, biometric attendance systems are good options. However, if you are planning to upgrade to an attendance system it is better to invest in software solutions such as Truein. Truein can provide all these security features of a biometric attendance system that can safeguard against time theft. It is not a hardware-based employee time and attendance system, so companies in the construction, manufacturing, retail, facility management, and hospitality industries can deploy it without additional cost. 2. Highly accurate as compared to other attendance systems The accuracy of biometric attendance systems is incredibly high, which makes them suitable for any company. Due to the advancement of technology and the availability of susceptible sensors, no one can fake their attendance if the company uses a biometric attendance system. On top of that, these systems record clock-in time accurately without any errors. Please note that the accuracy is high, but there is a limitation to how the biometric attendance system works when the location of the device has high humidity, high temperatures, moisture, or dirt. The sensors lose efficiency, and workers are forced to try multiple times to record their attendance. Software-based biometric attendance systems that use face recognition and AI-based algorithms for efficiency are more reliable and efficient, as they perform accurately in any work environment. 3. Prevents buddy punching Buddy punching is when a worker blocks in for a colleague using the time card. Such an activity records inaccurate attendance of the absent employees, and employers pay for the hours workers have not worked. As biometric attendance systems use unique physical attributes to identify and record attendance, they eliminate buddy punching in the workplace. 4. Automates the payroll process Almost every biometric attendance system is compatible with the most commonly used payroll software. These systems also have an inbuilt capability to facilitate work calculation, attendance report generation, leave management , etc. The automation of all these administrative tasks makes the payroll process highly efficient. This frees up time for the managers to focus on essential business activities that contribute to the company’s growth. 5. No hardware or physical contact required As we mentioned, biometric systems are several types, and this benefit is particular to software-based attendance systems such as Truein. The software solutions require no physical contact to identify and record attendance. This is a significant advantage of switching to biometric attendance systems as the attendance keeping and facility operations are not affected by hardware failure. Cloud-based solutions like Truein are portable, require no additional peripherals, hence have zero maintenance cost, and can be centrally upgraded. Truein is AI-based and can identify workers with masks on or changing official attributes such as glasses. As this biometric attendance system is cloud-based, there is no requirement for additional peripherals to be installed at the construction site, facility, manufacturing unit, or anywhere within the company. Workers can download the Truein app directly on their smartphones to record their attendance. This software-based biometric attendance system is a complete employee time management solution as it allows managers to track the location of workers with geofencing and GPS tracking . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Which industries should use a biometric attendance system? Any industry where companies have human resource management and payroll should use biometric attendance systems. Almost any industry can use a biometric attendance system to make workforce management easier. Whether in manufacturing, retail, facility management, construction, mining, services sector, or any other industry, using a biometric attendance system can bring accuracy, automation, and efficiency to employee identification and attendance. Over 300 customers in more than 25 countries are already using Truein to optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakages such as time theft and erroneous work hours calculations. Our superior algorithms and advanced technologies are helping industries record the attendance of blue-collar workers in real time. Some brands that trust Truein for employee time and attendance management include Tata Projects, Fiat, Schindler, Dominion, and Godrej. Schedule a free demo today and see how it can help to automate the time and attendance management in your organization. Conclusion Now you know what a biometric attendance system is and how it works. For any industry, a biometric attendance system is a management tool that can offer several benefits including automation of workforce management, accurate payroll, and improved security. There is no better solution to track employee time and attendance with the added benefit of foolproof security, automation, and efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Biometric Attendance Systems | Revolutionizing Workforce Management in the Middle East Alabama Overtime Laws: A Complete Understanding Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System May 27, 2024 Workforce management is an essential aspect of running a successful business. Companies use tools to track employee working hours, such as punch cards, access cards, timesheets, biometric systems, and attendance software. An attendance management system is critical in human resource management and payroll. If you run a company, your business operations must comply with state and local labor laws, payroll requirements, and overtime rules. All these compliances must be met while ensuring no inaccuracies, tampering, or time theft in staff attendance. These requirements highlight the importance of an attendance management system, as manual timekeeping practices can be detrimental to worker morale and productivity. In this attendance management system guide, we will explore how organizations can reduce the administrative workload of managers, improve the accuracy of attendance records, and save time by choosing the right attendance management software. Table of Contents What is an attendance management system? Importance of attendance management system 1. Productivity 2. Workforce discipline 3. Overtime management 4. Prevent time theft 5. Accurate payroll 6. Compliance Types of attendance management systems 1. Manual Attendance Management 2. Web-based Attendance Timesheets Management 3. Punch Clocks 4. Biometric-based Attendance Systems Features to look for in an attendance management system 1. Clocking in and out 2. Biometric-based 3. Reporting and analytics 4. Leave management 5. Mobile and cloud support 6. Payroll integration Truein: A comprehensive attendance management software for every industry Conclusion What is an attendance management system? Attendance management is the procedure within the organization to record, adjust, verify, and calculate the working hours of the workers and the time they spend away from work. With attendance management, employers can access the information on the total work hours of the staff for compliance and payroll. An attendance management system is an application that tracks employee time and attendance, including breaks, leaves, active hours, and overtime. These systems ease the workforce management process by automating most of the tasks. Modern attendance management systems technological evolution to ensure workers cannot tamper with attendance through buddy punching or time theft. For instance, cloud-based software solutions use face recognition to identify workers. Importance of attendance management system Every industry is benefited from an attendance management system. To truly determine whether you need such a system, you must be familiar with the importance of an attendance management system. Here are some reasons you need an attendance management system in your company. 1. Productivity If your managers are busy completing tedious administrative tasks, they need more time to focus on matters that contribute to increased productivity and better revenues. An attendance management system can automate most attendance keeping, freeing the management from tedious administrative tasks. It directly contributes to productivity as managers don’t have to handle repetitive administrative tasks. Also, automated time records are highly accurate and have minimal risks of human errors. This makes payroll calculation much more accessible and precise. 2. Workforce discipline Labor management becomes unpredictable if there is no discipline in the work culture. If workers attend work late, often take leaves, or indulge in time theft, it is mandatory to address these issues. If some workers are not disciplined, it can turn infectious, influencing other employees to adopt such bad habits. This can wreak havoc on the company. Hardworking and punctual employees must be protected against unproductive and poor work ethics. An attendance management system can help supervisors and managers keep track of workers’ attendance and identify any pattern of indiscipline. 3. Overtime management Poorly managed over time can eat into your profits and ultimately impact the company’s bottom line. This is why you must be accurate with recording and calculating overtime hours. An attendance management system can help you track workers across multiple shifts and record overtime hours much more accurately. When companies need to increase production or meet increased demand, they can utilize overtime to meet the requirements without hiring more staff. A proper worker time tracking system can help increase employee satisfaction by offering overtime to earn more. 4. Prevent time theft The primary reason why staff attendance management systems came into existence is to prevent time theft by employees. With accurate timekeeping mechanisms, many workers can use the system and indulge in time theft and buddy punching. Biometric-based attendance management systems offer a foolproof way to track and enforce attendance and overtime policies consistently and diligently. 5. Accurate payroll Nothing demoralizes workers more than receiving inaccurate pay. They expect to be paid when they put in proper hours at work. Inaccuracy can be easily minimized by deploying attendance management systems helping companies accurately measure and calculate shifts, attendance, and overtime. 6. Compliance Running a business requires complying with various compliance requirements. With an attendance management system in place, it becomes easy to create and implement different policies about employee management, such as attendance, overtime, leave, etc. Also, the policies can be made available to all employees, and any changes can be conveyed directly. Types of attendance management systems You will find several attendance management system solutions, but you must pick the most suitable for your business type. Here is a quick view of the attendance management systems available for employee time tracking. 1. Manual Attendance Management Paper timesheets and Excel sheets are the standard methods to record employee time and attendance at many companies. It can work for you if you have a small number of workers. However, it remains an outdated technique that is prone to time theft and requires too much time to calculate payroll. 2. Web-based Attendance Timesheets Management Automated timesheets are web-based attendance management systems that allow employees to access timesheets online to record their clock in and out. There is also an option to mention leaves, vacations, and overtime. 3. Punch Clocks Most manufacturing and retail companies still use punch cards to track and record employee time and attendance. It offers automation over manual attendance management systems, but still, there are better ways to track work hours. Punch clocks have high scope for buddy punching, in which an employee can punch in for a colleague with his time card when he’s not present at work. 4. Biometric-based Attendance Systems The most popular genre of attendance management systems currently in use is biometric systems. These attendance management systems have sensors to read the biometric attributes of workers. As the biometric qualities are unique and extremely difficult to copy, biometric attendance systems virtually eliminate buddy punching with fingerprint and face recognition solutions. Features to look for in an attendance management system Now that we understand the different types of attendance management systems, we must know what features to look for when selecting a solution for your company. 1. Clocking in and out This is an obvious requirement from any attendance management system. While the level of information a system captures when clocking in and out can vary, at minimum, an attendance management system must log an employee’s ID and a timestamp. If your company has an extensive infrastructure with multiple entry and exit points, you can choose a system that also logs door info and movement type (in/out). Modern applications like Truein allow mobile-based attendance recording . It is a fast, secure, efficient, and time-saving solution. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Biometric-based As we mentioned, the manual and semi-automated attendance systems must be foolproof. Such systems can be compromised easily. This is why the attendance system you choose must be biometric-based. A biometric attendance system uses physical attributes like retinas, fingerprints, and face recognition to identify workers. It is impossible to game the system with false information or commit buddy punching. This increases the efficiency and integrity of workforce management. You must deploy biometric attendance systems in your company for security, accuracy, and better employee management. 3. Reporting and analytics The attendance management system must offer reporting and analytics for efficient workforce management. Managers can make insightful decisions when they have access to various attendance-related reports. Absenteeism is one of the essential data points to help identify a pattern. It helps to determine whether there is a need for an intervention, and the employee’s behavior must be investigated and addressed. If employee absenteeism , too frequent time off, and shift switching are not addressed, it can read to productivity issues. An attendance management system must offer advanced reporting and analytics options. 4. Leave management Another important feature that an attendance management system must have is leave management . It is required by law that workers are provided with a certain number of leaves. It includes paid leaves , maternity leaves, sick days , etc. To remain compliant with several labor laws, an attendance management system must offer options for leave management. It will help HR track leaves for individual employees and make payroll easier. 5. Mobile and cloud support Modern technological advancements have improved the IT infrastructure, and companies can better use it for workforce management. An attendance management system with mobile and cloud support will deploy easily. Most traditional employee time and attendance tracking systems are not portable. Therefore, before choosing any attendance management system, you must ensure that it has high portability. Furthermore, its operation must be straightforward enough for workers to understand and use. Systems that support mobile and cloud infrastructure are best as they can be deployed without additional hardware and are often easy to use. 6. Payroll integration There is no point in installing an attendance management system if HR still has to process payroll manually. A genuinely effective attendance management system must augment payroll by providing data for easy integration into the payroll system. You must choose an attendance management system that offers easy payroll integration. It will facilitate accurate compensation calculations by providing correct overtime and work hours. Truein: A comprehensive attendance management software for every industry Truein is an industry-standard product utilizing the power of AI and face recognition technology to deliver software-based attendance management solutions. It features all the necessary functions that we listed above. Using facial recognition, it even identifies workers if they are wearing masks or glasses. Truein is a cloud-based employee time and attendance management solution that employers can deploy anywhere instantly. It works on mobiles and tablets, so there is no need to invest in any peripherals, making it suitable to deploy at remote sites. You can have a real-time view of multiple sites, ensuring managers have transparent and centralized control over workers’ work and overtime hours, leaves, and shifts. Additionally, Truein easily integrates with all major payroll systems and offers 70+ customizable policies that you can use as per the location and staff category. Schedule a free demo today and see how you can automate the attendance management in your organization. Conclusion We hope you now understand the importance of an attendance management system for workforce management. Several types of attendance management systems are available, so you must choose a solution that supports biometric-based identification, overtime and leave policy management, payroll integration, and more. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws Georgia PTO Laws: A Comprehensive Guide on Georgia Paid Time-off Laws Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace May 20, 2024 Although many believe that overtime must be avoided, it can be a good choice for companies in several situations. Think about it; overtime is an efficient solution for 24/7 coverage in the company. It can help any organization to improve its competitive position in the local labor market by offering the opportunity to workers to earn extra income. overtime also allows workers to respond to any short-term variation in workload or staffing quickly. Companies don’t have to manage additional staff to cover such variations in requirements and only pay for the time needed. Still, if you are facing challenges, it might be because you don’t know how to manage overtime. Effectively using overtime requires employers to understand the adverse effects on the workforce. This is what we are going to discuss in this article. Table of Contents Why is it essential to manage overtime? Five best practices to manage overtime more effectively 1. Cap overtime limit 2. Track employee working hours and overtime 3. Create an overtime policy and share it with your team 4. Cross-train employees 5. Allow overtime only when there is a demand How can Truein automate the process of overtime tracking and calculation? Conclusion Why is it essential to manage overtime? If employers are not effectively using overtime, there can be severe repercussions on workers’ productivity and health. Poorly managed overtime can result in employee burnout, reduction in worker engagement, and excessive turnover. Workers overworking interferes with their ability to get adequate sleep, leading to poor health and safety and quality problems on the job. Furthermore, if the overtime is prolonged, it can inadvertently create an overtime-dependent workforce with higher absenteeism and lower productivity. To minimize these consequences, managers must know how to manage overtime reasonably. It is essential to keep an eye on overall and individual overtime hours and monitor absentees and workers exploiting the overtime policy. There are several steps you can take to manage overtime more effectively. Five best practices to manage overtime more effectively 1. Cap overtime limit Overtime hours must always be regulated to keep the labor cost within sustainable limits—generally, overtime pay kicks in when employees reach 40 hours per week. As there are no federal limitations on how much overtime an employee can work, there must be clear policies capping the overtime limit and explaining which employees are or aren’t allowed to work overtime. Employers must determine a weekly, monthly, and annual cap on overtime hours that the business can afford to pay per employee. Capping the overtime limit is necessary to ensure that the work gets distributed more evenly amongst the workers and every employee gets a chance to work overtime hours if they want to earn the extra pay. 2. Track employee working hours and overtime It will be a tedious task to track employee working hours and overtime if managers have to do it manually. This is why it’s essential to deploy an automated overtime management software like Truein that can efficiently track and monitor employee working hours, facilitate overtime calculations, and easily integrates into the payroll system. Tracking overtime within the workforce is necessary to ensure that everyone gets a fair chance to earn extra income. You can also adjust schedules if a worker hits their maximum overtime hours for the week. Automation provides you with data and insights on managing overtime more effectively. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 3. Create an overtime policy and share it with your team An overtime policy is mandatory to provide a complete overview of the company’s stands regarding overtime rules. It must also entail all the local, state, and federal laws around overtime hours, and the company compensates for working overtime. A good overtime policy includes the rules and procedures to control overtime. It should also highlight how employees discuss overtime with their managers. Set expectations for both workers and supervisors to facilitate communication regarding the same. 4. Cross-train employees A “single point of failure” must never be present within the workforce. Simply put, a few workers should not be the most skilled or with the most experience, as their absence can be detrimental to the productivity of the overall workforce. Spreading responsibility and specialties among the whole team is one way to reduce overtime. Instead of relying on a few skilled workers, you must have a training and development program to train other workers to step in and pick up the load if required. Cross-training employees is one of the best ways to ensure that production and business operations are not affected by the absence of a few workers. 5. Allow overtime only when there is a demand There must not be an endless overtime cycle. Usually, the demand for more work spikes during busy seasons or when your business is going through aggressive growth. This leads to increased profits, but if you are not managing overtime more effectively, your earnings might directly go to paying employees for overtime and health costs. This is why it is necessary to match staffing to demand and allow overtime only when required. Managers must schedule smarter to reduce overtime and to ensure that the correct number of staff is available when needed. How can Truein automate the process of overtime tracking and calculation? Truein is a complete employee time and attendance management solution . It is a cloud-based, hardware-less application that also features overtime recording, calculation, and management. Irrespective of the industry or workforce size, you can deploy Truein at any remote site or company campus for effective work-hour recording. The app uses an AI-based algorithm for identifying and clocking in workers. It also features GPS tracking and geofencing , ensuring workers are present on-site while recording overtime. Truein supports custom reports with overtime calculations and 70+ policies to automate overtime, shifts, and payroll-ready reports. Schedule a demo today and try Truein for free. Conclusion These are the essential tips you must know on how to manage overtime within your organization. Every company has challenges when working overtime, but automation software like Truein benefits every employer. It automates a large part of overtime tracking and calculation that helps managers schedule better. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business Managing Seasonal/Temporary Workers in Construction: Best Practices for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions July 26, 2024 Managing the workforce is challenging, but things are more complicated when your workers are distributed at several locations. In industries like construction, retail, and facility management, workers are distributed over sites in different locations, resulting in inefficiencies in business management processes unless the distributed team challenges are met with strategy and planning. This article will list the most commonly occurring challenges for distributed teams and explore solutions to manage and run distributed workforce effectively. Table of Contents Six distributed team challenges and how to manage them 1. Poor communication with staff 2. Time management 3. Keeping up with compliance regulations 4. Lack of skilled workforce 5. Productivity issues 6. Scheduling geographically distributed teams Conclusion Six distributed team challenges and how to manage them 1. Poor communication with staff A distributed team will have workers at different geolocations, and most communication will likely happen through messaging or over call. The absence of face-to-face communication creates an opportunity for miscommunication if no body language is at play. It is common for managers and supervisors to accidentally convey a tone other than what they mean. This creates resentment or distress among workers and can result in unnecessary conflicts or confrontations. The solution is to implement measures to avoid miscommunication by ensuring the right message is conveyed to the workers at the site. You can plan training sessions for managers and supervisors to let them know how to communicate better with workers and what kind of tone to avoid. Also, supervisors must be encouraged to communicate with workers and laborers on video calls so the workers can better interpret their facial expressions. 2. Time management Your teams will work in different time zones if you have globally distributed manufacturing units or work sites. As a manager, getting a quick response from workers will be difficult. Similarly, it can be challenging to simultaneously initiate and deliver training programs to all members in every time zone. Time management is a significant distributed team challenge when dealing with workers working in different time zones but are part of the same team. Also, mastering the digital work environment is crucial. You must implement a different shift schedule across multiple time zones. Also, the overtime rules will vary in these zones. The solution to time management distributed team challenges is to choose a time during everyone’s typical daytime work hours. It can be morning for some workers, afternoon, or early evening for others. You might have to record training sessions for teams in vastly different time zones so workers can access them later. In addition, you can maximize productivity by creating shifts such that workers in the same teams are working the same hours. 3. Keeping up with compliance regulations If your workforce is distributed over different locations within the same country or internationally, keeping up with the compliance regulations is challenging. Every state has its own set of labor and federal laws. Employers must comply with every labor-management law to avoid lawsuits. A 2019 Global Teams study by the Society for Human Resources (SHRM) and Globalization Partners found that over 40% of companies find dealing with international labor and business laws overwhelming. One of the best ways to deal with compliance regulations if you manage an international workforce is to hire an employer of record (EOR) service . These services provide an easy solution to handle payroll, contracts, and other administrative tasks while complying with local and international labor laws. 4. Lack of skilled workforce It is plausible that not at all locations skilled workforce will be available easily. This causes a challenge for managers to balance the skilled and unskilled workers for the projects. The easiest way to deal with this distributed team challenge is to create training programs. Developing the workers’ skills at the site is the most efficient way to manage the skill distribution gap. You can also create diverse training programs to better utilize a unique set of skills or cultural diversity the workers might bring to the team. 5. Productivity issues When managers or supervisors are not located on-site, it can be challenging to maintain a productive work environment. Laborers and workers at remote sites can only be sincere with their work if there are measures to track their location and activities. It is one of the significant distributed team challenges to maintain a productive environment for remote workers. Workers at remote locations need help maintaining the task at hand because they feel a supervisor’s or manager’s impending authority. To make workers accountable for their work, companies can deploy employee monitoring solutions such as Truein. It is a complete employee time and attendance management solution that provides geofencing and GPS-tracking features. Its real-time location and attendance tracking feature helps the manager to maintain productivity at the site. Truein is a cloud-based software solution that can be deployed at any remote worksite without any hardware. Workers can download the Truein app on their smartphones and use its AI-based facial recognition system to clock in. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 6. Scheduling geographically distributed teams Shift scheduling is challenging when you have a distributed team. When workers are at different locations but are working on the same project, it can be challenging to schedule with the workers. For instance, in an automobile manufacturing company, only some parts are manufactured within the same unit. In the engine assembly line, molding of the parts and the assembly of the engine often occur at different locations. However, these two teams must work in sync to ensure that all the measurements and adjustments are accurate. This present distributed team challenges for scheduling the workers. The solution to engage geographically distributed team members is to focus on scheduling appropriately, so their shifts coincide. Truein can help you with shift scheduling as well. It can create a schedule and share it with the workers instantly. You can also create shift schedules for contractual workers from the same dashboard, even if they are not part of the full-time workforce. Schedule a free demo to see how Truein can track the attendance and overtime of your employees and also help with shift scheduling. Conclusion Distribute teams present opportunities and associated challenges as well. The distributed team challenges we have listed here are the most common. We hope the solutions we have shared will help you to deal with these challenges and maintain a productive and progressive workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 26, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 26, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 26, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 26, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 26, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 7 Manufacturing Industry HR Challenges and Possible Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Payroll Management »  					3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them May 20, 2024 A smooth-running payroll system requires overcoming daunting challenges throughout human resources. Often the responsibility of finding solutions for the payroll problems lies with a few people, which makes it difficult. Payroll has to comply with company guidelines and labor laws. Also, given that a company will have potentially complex in-house salary packages, payroll problems become even more challenging. Even the most complex payroll problems can become easy and less time-consuming with a proper strategy in place. We have listed the most commonly encountered payroll problems and practical solutions. This is a useful guide for any accounting managers, HRs and CEOs who are looking to streamline payroll at their organizations. Table of Contents 1. Problem: Incorrect employee information Solution 2. Problem: Late or inaccurate payments Solution 3. Problem: Compliance and regulatory issues Solution Truein for payroll problems 1. Problem: Incorrect employee information Managing a payroll database with correct employee information is crucial to ensure that your employees get paid. If there is incorrect or missing employee information, it can result in payroll processing errors resulting in delays in paying workers. This in turn can lead to frustration and dissatisfaction among affected employees. Also, incorrect employee information raises statutory compliance issues that can result in potential significant fines and penalties. To avoid payroll tax issues, there must be a way to keep employee information updated and accurate. Solution The solution is to make it possible for employees to view their payroll information and suggest corrections wherever necessary. HR managers must be trained to periodically audit employee information in company records to ensure it is accurate and updated. A software solution can automate most such audits, which in turn helps the organization stay compliant and keeps the employee information accurate. 2. Problem: Late or inaccurate payments Payroll processing is essential in workforce management and must be done accurately and promptly. If you fail to pay your workers on time, salary delay can potentially lead to dissatisfaction and cash flow issues for employees. This in turn can affect their productivity and relationship with employers. Delayed payments can also result in workers forming an opinion that either the company is not doing well or that they are being exploited. Affected employees could also discuss this with their colleagues, post it anonymously on the web thus severely denting your company’s reputation in front of other potential job seekers. According to a CIPP study , when asked how they felt after getting paid late: 48% of workers responded they felt their employers don’t care about their wellbeing 40% felt the risk to their financial condition 47% of employees felt due anxiety and worry 25% of workers were less engaged and productive Evidently, late payroll processing can have adverse effects, so appropriate actions must be taken to ensure workers are paid on time. Solution A simple solution for this problem is to choose the right payroll solution for your business that can take care of the calculations and checks before payroll can be processed. Manually handling the payroll of hundreds of workers is tedious, results in errors, and delays payments. With a software solution to accelerate payroll processing with automation, managers no longer have to spend hours on work-hour calculations. 3. Problem: Compliance and regulatory issues Staying compliant with the law and running the company within the prescribed legal framework is crucial. Keeping in sync with the latest labor laws, state regulations, legislations, and regulatory requirements, which at the same time running a company can be challenging for any business owner. Unless you have a legal team in place, it is not uncommon for companies to miss or fall foul on some intricate rules. This oversight though can have grave legal consequences attracting significant fines and penalties. Another challenge is to keep the staff updated with the compliance requirements. As the laws are amended from time to time, you will have to provide frequent training to ensure they are on the right side of the law. Solution An easy way to ensure compliance is to adopt a software solution that can keep checks in place to ensure regulatory requirements are met in payroll processing. It also serves as an easy way for HR to keep track of changes in laws and makes compliance a lot easier. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein for payroll problems Truein is a cloud-based employee time tracking and attendance system with several payroll automation features. It uses AI technology to identify and clock in workers accurately. With its GPS geofencing capabilities, it can be deployed at remote sites as well thus eliminating the need for maintaining manual timesheets. Calculating the attendance automatically generates data that can be integrated into your existing payroll software. It ensures that the payroll process is always on time and workers are paid accurately. There is also a self-service feature in the Truein app that allows employees to view their information in the company records and request corrections or updates if required. Managers can view all the employee details in the dashboard that can be integrated with the payroll system to strengthen accuracy further. Truein also offers 70+ policy templates that companies can customize as per the local, state, and federal labor laws and other regulations. If you are medium, large business looking for a solution that could automate payroll processing & attendance management and save the business thousands of dollars every year, then schedule a free demo today and give Truein a try. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors October 24, 2024 Construction companies have high resource requirements than other industries. This makes running a successful construction business complicated. Fortunately, there are several best contractors apps that can help them manage different aspects of the company. From project management, scheduling, and budgeting, to everything required for managing small business operations in the construction business, technology can help. Most contractors need help with keeping business operations in line. This is why over two-thirds of construction businesses miss deadlines or go over budget with their projects. To help alleviate most of these problems, there exist cloud-based contractor apps. These applications are built with the requirements of the construction business in mind. Here in this article, we list the best apps for construction that contractors can use for project management. We picked the top apps for contractors based on their features, technology, portability, and overall effectiveness. Let’s get started. Table of Contents Five best apps for contractors 1. Truein: Best time tracking scheduling app for contractors 2. LetsBuild: Best construction management app for project managers 3. All-In-One Calculator: Best for remodeling contractors 4. Field Promax 5. DeWalt Mobile Pro: Best for multi-contractor calculations 6. Sortly Frequently Asked Question What is a contractor app? What to look for in a contractor app? How do contractor apps work? What are the benefits of using a contractor app? Conclusion Five best apps for contractors 1. Truein: Best time tracking scheduling app for contractors Truein is one of the most robust staff time tracking and attendance apps . Its cloud-based, hardware-less design makes it the best time-tracking app for contractors . You can deploy it directly on the phones of laborers and supervisors. There are all the scheduling and time-tracking features available on this app that you will need to run your construction business. Truein has a complete schedule management feature that project managers can use to schedule workers on site and even track their location at the work site in real-time to ensure they are present at the job site through GPS Geofencing . Managers can ensure that workers are on-site, and approve shift switches, leaves, overtime, etc., using the app. This scheduling and time-tracking app for contractors is made for distributed and contractual workers. Therefore, if you hire subcontractors for construction projects, you can easily accommodate the workers they provide for the projects in the workforce management system. With its geofenced attendance tracking, you can eliminate time theft from your construction business. You can limit the workers to clock in and out only from the location of the job site. Furthermore, it directly integrates into payroll, which automates salary calculation and decreases errors. Truein is ideal for construction businesses of all sizes. You can manage multiple job sites, and several more features make it one of the best apps for construction. Key features: Real-time work hours tracking GPS Geofenced Attendance Auto-generate reports Company-wide policy creation that can be customized according to location and staff category Create and update shift schedules Allow workers to switch shifts Direct integration into the payroll system “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. LetsBuild: Best construction management app for project managers LetsBuild is one of the best apps for contractors to help the on-site teams collaborate efficiently. The app provides project managers to have clear access to the business operations and receive information in real-time. LetsBuild removes all the complications from sharing information between the site and the office. The app is a suite for products – Documents, Progress & Planning, QHSE, and Control and Insights. Construction managers and project supervisors can easily use this application to manage the labor force at multiple construction sites. Key Features: Track and update a project plan in real time Access the latest documents, construction drawings, and on-site plans Overview processes and insights Ensure compliance with standards and regulations at the worksite Easily digitize key processes for an efficient business operation Enable seamless communication and collaboration 3. All-In-One Calculator: Best for remodeling contractors All-In-One Calculator is a free android app that helps business owners to do various construction-related calculations. You can use it for everything from the simple unit and currency conversions to calculating volumes, areas, and proportions. In total, there is a set of 75 calculators and unit converters. If you use an iPhone, you can use Construction Calculator for similar functionality. It might not be a complete project management application, but it is still one of the best apps for remodeling contractors. Key Features: Calculate stair lengths, roof pitch, and rafter lengths Unit converters Quick-Job feature to quickly calculate projects like fencing, drywall, painting, and flooring It can be used for accurate estimations 4. Field Promax Field Promax is a powerful field service management tool designed to simplify day-to-day operations for contractors. It helps you streamline tasks like scheduling, work order management, and team coordination, all from one intuitive platform. With Field Promax, you can ensure your team stays connected, and jobs get done smoothly and on time. The app is ideal for managing technicians on-site and keeping everything in sync with your office. It provides features that help contractors gain real-time visibility over their field operations and customer requests, reducing errors and boosting efficiency. Key Features: Schedule and dispatch jobs quickly and easily Monitor work orders and technician progress in real time Generate invoices and accept payments on the spot Keep track of equipment Integrate seamlessly with QuickBooks, Xero for simplified accounting Access via mobile, making it perfect for teams on the go Field Promax gives contractors the tools to stay organized, handle multiple jobs efficiently, and provide better service to customers. 5. DeWalt Mobile Pro: Best for multi-contractor calculations DeWalt Mobile Pro is present in our list of top construction apps because it helps make the construction process much more efficient by offering several calculators and tools. Whether you want to calculate material costs or do job-site math, you can make more accurate estimates of project costs and deadlines using this app. It is an excellent app for contractors working on projects of any type or size. Key Features: Construction calculations Save calculations for later reference Mobile-friendly for both Android and iOS Add on packs for multiple trades Easy to use Free download 6. Sortly Sortly is the application that assists construction teams in staying on the project timeline and ensuring the project is completed within the deadlines by offering inventory management. For construction companies, it is often challenging to manage and track supplies, materials, and equipment spread out across multiple locations. With Sortly, teams at several sites can collaborate and track inventory as it moves between sites. It also has construction invoicing features that help project managers keep the project within budget. This app for contractors is suitable for companies of all sizes. Key Features : Organize inventory folders Easily upload existing inventory list Get real-time reporting insights on inventory Get alerted when you’re running low on stock Sync inventory management across multiple devices Frequently Asked Question What is a contractor app? Contractor apps are digitally driven tools helping automate the tasks associated with construction projects. These applications are designed to automate tasks, store documents, enable collaboration, offer tracking and scheduling, and more. What to look for in a contractor app? The best apps for contractors have the features to augment every segment of the construction project. Apart from facilitating the automation of most tasks, they should be easy to use and even easier to deploy. How do contractor apps work? All the contractor apps listed above are cloud-based and can be downloaded on your phone or tablet. After successful installation, contractors need to input data related to their project. These apps will help them track project progress, schedule workers, enable team communication, generate and store documents, and much more. What are the benefits of using a contractor app? These apps improve business efficiency by reducing manual administrative tasks. Compliance becomes more accessible as the regulations and policies can be seamlessly shared with workers. There are many delays in project progress as managers can keep an eye on all the tasks in real-time. There is improved communication between teams. Contractor apps are also cost-effective in minimizing paperwork, eliminating time theft, and accurately calculating overtime. Conclusion If you want some help to make your next construction project more efficient and profitable, these are the best apps for contractors to consider. From worker time tracking to resource management and everything in between, the apps listed in this guide offer all the capabilities. Using these apps, contractors can collaborate easily, schedule and time track workers, remain compliant, stay up to date with safety protocols and other information, and automate different tasks to streamline projects. Overall, Truein remains a complete solution for employee time tracking and attendance management for contractors in the construction industry. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors Idaho Overtime Laws: What Employers Must Know How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors October 15, 2024 Time-tracking apps offer contractors an easy, accurate, and productive way of monitoring work hours. Automatic time tracking makes it easier for independent contractors to calculate billable hours and helps with client billing. As a contractor, keeping track of your team’s productivity is essential to deliver projects on time and within budget. With the right tools, it is a simple task; otherwise, you will be wasting valuable time manually managing timesheets and losing money to time theft , buddy punching , and repeated payroll mistakes. This is why we handpicked the best time-tracking app for contractors that are software solutions tested to create 100% accurate timesheets. Let’s review the best time tracking software for contractors in detail. Table of Contents Top 5 time tracking apps for contractors 1. Truein Features: 2. Time Analytics Software Features: 3. BQE Core Features: 4. eSub Features: 5. Everhour Features: How to choose the best timesheet app for contractors? Conclusion Top 5 time tracking apps for contractors 1. Truein Truein is at the top of the list for a reason. This cloud-based time tracking app for contractors is a tool to centralize and foolproof time tracking for your business. With Truein, independent contractors can manage timesheets and monitor their workers’ work hours and attendance easily and efficiently. Its hardwareless design supports multiple sites, providing freedom to monitor workers at any number of sites from a central location. Furthermore, Truein’s face-based time and attendance procedure makes buddy punching impossible. It also offers a geofenced selfie-based clock-in. Simply put, workers need to be present at the designated job site to be able to clock in, which ensures there is no time theft. Apart from these features, it offers automated timesheets, over 70 customizable policies, leave and overtime management, and payroll integrations. Features: GPS geofencing to manage multiple sites Real-time time tracking Offline attendance features ensure time tracking is accurate even if there are internet connectivity issues at remote sites. Automated timesheets log daily work hours, overtime, breaks, etc. Fast selfie-based onboarding allows contractors to include new workers in teams instantly Instantly generate reports and get real time analytics for any number of locations Payroll-ready reports with final calculations for accurate and faster payroll processing Robust shift scheduling with a flexible policy to automatically allocate shifts. Supports multiple points of access “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Time Analytics Software Time Analytics Software is specifically crafted for consulting firms, contractors, engineers, architects, and similar professionals. It provides comprehensive time and cost tracking for construction workers and other team members on a project, client, or task basis. This software empowers contractors by streamlining administrative tasks and optimizing time utilization, enabling them to focus on delivering projects punctually and within budgetary constraints. With this construction timesheet app, you gain the ability to establish and monitor vital key performance indicators (KPIs). These include metrics like work time utilization, billable and non-billable hours per project, breakdown of time spent on various activities, employee productivity rates, client profitability analysis, invoicing accuracy, and more. Features: Track time on specified tasks, projects, and clients Manual time entry and timer functionality Mark hours as billable with accompanying notes Automatic cost allocation to projects Daily and weekly timesheets display time entries per project, client, and task Manager can review and edit timesheets Flexible filtering and export options in Excel format Generate project time and cost reports Analyze revenue and profits Access actionable visual reports and performance dashboard Monitor total, billable, and non-billable hours Gain insights into time utilization patterns Track overtime hours for efficient team management Review billable hours for each client before invoicing Export invoices to Excel for final adjustments 3. BQE Core Mainly an accounting and invoicing software tool, BQE Core is also a tremendous time-tracking app suitable for contractors. Its time management modules work on both web and mobile and its offers employee database management, billable hours calculation, and scheduling. However, its time-tracking and report generation are less robust than Truein. It is more suitable if a contractor wants expense management that also offers time tracking. Features: Smart timecards and pre-populated timesheets with customizable date ranges Track time and expense and submit right from the mobile app GPS time tracking Copy timesheets to eliminate manual entry Set timesheet guidelines and policies BQE Core is a contractor timesheet app more aligned with expense tracking and planning. Its time-tracking capabilities are good enough for any contractor to use for their business management. 4. eSub If you require an independent contractor time-tracking app built around project management, you can try eSub. It is a time-tracking and project-management tool designed for contractors who employ many teams. This is why eSub might not be suitable for individual contractors, plus its pricing on the higher side. That being said, it can efficiently track the time and progress of projects. This application allows contractors to easily monitor labor activities, site events, material costs, and other workforce information. eSub stores all this information in a searchable database which is updated in real-time. Unlike Truein, which has excellently detailed and user-friendly time-tracking features, this contractor timesheet software requires some learning. Features: Real-time project visibility and insights Designed with commercial trade contractors Offers organization access to all documents related to a project Available on both web and mobile Works as a cloud-based SaaS service If you are a commercial contractor struggling to maintain multiple teams and looking for enterprise-level software, eSub is the right app. 5. Everhour Everhour markets itself as a free and easy-to-use time tracker. That sounds tempting, but it has its limitations. In an attempt to make its timesheets more detailed, the creators have opted for a complicated dashboard. Everhour thus requires a bit of training to get used to. Features: Time-tracking app with project and team management features More suitable for IT companies that require integration to platforms like Asana, Trello, and GitHub Ability to add reminders and auto-stop timers Keep track of project budgets and schedule thresholds Forward resource planning feature for project management Report and invoicing feature Contractors can use Everhour for time tracking as it has robust features on that front, but as previously mentioned, it will require some training. It is the best-suited app for contract workers in the IT industry. How to choose the best timesheet app for contractors? The choice can be challenging with dozens of time-tracking apps on the market. Here are the essential features a reliable contractor timesheet software must have. Real-time tracking: Contractors must be able to monitor their workers in real-time to ensure they are productive while on the job site. Real-time tracking minimizes the chances of time theft. Ability to edit timesheets: The best time-tracking apps will let you correct inaccuracies, if any, in timesheets for accurate payroll. Workers might need to remember to clock in or leave the timer running while they are off for lunch; such situations must be corrected as soon as identified. This is why a time-tracking app for contractors must offer options to edit time blocks manually. Reporting and analytics: Time-tracking apps must also offer an easy to use dashboard and generate reports allowing them to analyze their business based on time spent per project or person daily, weekly, or monthly. Analytics is a feature that provides business owners with data that helps drive business decisions and optimizes the workforce for higher productivity and profit. Data download and integration: Today, applications are required to offer integration to expand their functionality to other aspects of business operations. A time-tracking app must offer integration with payroll software to automate most of the admin tasks associated with payroll processing. Additionally, it should provide an option to download data and reports. Multiple points of access: The best time-tracking apps offers easy and convenient options to clock in and out from various interfaces. It can be through a web browser, mobile app, or a standalone kiosk. This feature ensures that contractors can use the same software across multiple locations and access points. Conclusion Choosing a time-tracking app for contractors gets easier when you know the features to look for. Time tracking is essential for your business as it helps plug any revenue leaks such as time theft and poor productivity. Among the five listed applications, Truein offers the most value for both money and features and it is the most affordable cloud-based time tracking app for contractors. Request a demo today and try it for free! Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 15, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 15, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 15, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 15, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 15, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Best Geofencing Apps for Employees in 2024 Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? March 31, 2024 In most workplaces, employees are entitled to a lunch break to get a breather from the long day at work. A hardworking and dedicated workforce is a boom for any company, and every worker must be provided every opportunity to restore their mental and physical health. Taking time to eat lunch is not considered an official work hour. There are no federal break laws that employers are bound to. Yet, every company should maintain its employee lunch break policy. Such a policy is critical in keeping workers as productive as possible and to prevent time misuse. If your company still doesn’t have an employee break policy, this guide is for you. Read on to learn more on how you can create an employee friendly break policy at work. Table of Contents Why is the lunch break policy important at the workplace? 1. Improves productivity and efficiency 2. Reduced health risks 3. Compliance with the law Break laws in different countries United States India UAE How to design an effective lunch break policy? Sample Lunch & Break Policy Rest Breaks Lunch Breaks Emergency Breaks Break Time Policy Violations Challenges to implementing employee lunch break policy 1. Share policy with workers 2. Compliance 3. Tracking employee time Truein for employee lunch break policy implementation Conclusion Why is the lunch break policy important at the workplace? If your workers are not taking regular breaks, it will harm their well-being, and ultimately their work performance will decline. Making workers work without breaks may seem stellar, but it has negative consequences for employees and employers. To maintain a positive workforce and encourage workers to take breaks, you must make efforts to let workers know that it’s alright to take lunch breaks. To ensure clarity, a comprehensive employee lunch break policy will help. Here are some of the reasons to have a lunch break policy. 1. Improves productivity and efficiency Maximizing productivity and efficiency means something other than making employees work continuously throughout the day. When you allow rest and meal breaks, it has a direct effect on task attention and productivity. This has been shown to have a ripple effect on the sales and revenue within the company. An employee-friendly break policy encourages them to put their best at work, and a dedicated workforce is essential for any company. 2. Reduced health risks Employees in a company with an ideal lunch policy tend to have fewer health conditions associated with long work hours. Stress and fatigue are the most common issues workers face if the working conditions are unhealthy. For employers, an unhealthy workforce means increased absence rates, poor shift scheduling, and low production. A friendly employee break policy builds trust between employers and employees. It makes the foundation for a trustful relationship between employers and employees. Meal and rest breaks keep the working environment stress-free, and you get a happy workforce. Happy workers proactively work harder and give their best, which improves product and service quality. It is an intangible benefit that increases and improves productivity in the long term. 3. Compliance with the law Running a business requires compliance with the laws of its jurisdiction. Regulations regarding lunch break policy are becoming more prevalent. A lunch break policy will provide clear guidance to workers on the company’s stance on meal and rest breaks. It will also help comply with local, state, and federal laws. Therefore, having a break policy for hourly employees benefits the workers and enables you to be on the right side of the law. Break laws in different countries When creating and implementing an employee lunch break policy, you must know the current state labor law requirements. Check out the guidelines regarding scheduled lunch break policy in different countries. United States According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), there are no federal break laws. But there are local state laws regarding meal and rest breaks. You can learn about the meal break laws for your state from the U.S. Department of Labor site here . Almost half of the U.S. states have lunch break laws that require employers to avail a 30-minute break for workers who perform over six hours of work within a single shift. States of California, Colorado, Kentucky, Minnesota, Nevada, Vermont, and Washington make it mandatory that all workers, irrespective of their roles, must be provided paid rest breaks by law. In comparison, other states cover only specific types of workers. For instance, Maryland’s Shift Break law only covers retail workers. India In India, most states follow the Factories Act guidelines that mandate a 48-hours work week. Companies can make workers work up to 9 hours daily, including the lunch break. Most state laws provide a break of 30 to 60 minutes every four to five hours worked. However, most companies provide a one-hour lunch break in an eight-hour shift. UAE According to the Federal Decree Law No. 33 of 2021 on the Regulation of Labour Relations in the Private Sector , companies must follow the 8 hours per day or 48 hours per week shift schedule. The law also entitles “ any worker has the right to have one or more breaks, if he works five consecutive hours. These breaks must not be less than one hour. Breaks are not calculated within the working hours. “ “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How to design an effective lunch break policy? When creating a lunch break policy for your company, you must first determine the state’s legal requirements. Then you can proceed to include the best practices for allowable breaks. A friendly employee lunch break policy is comprehensive and precise, with a specified amount of break time per number of hours worked. Here is a lunch break policy sample that you can refer to. Sample Lunch & Break Policy [Company Name] provides full and part-time employees with meal and lunch breaks to ensure they can remain productive at work. These breaks can be used for any reason, such as restroom use, smoking (in designated areas only), coffee breaks, meal or snack breaks, telephone breaks, or short naps. We provide two kinds of breaks and a break room for you to use. Rest Breaks Rest breaks are to be 15 minutes at maximum. You are not required to take a break, but we encourage it for your health and well-being. Here’s how it works: Breaks are offered 2 times a day for full-time employees who work 6 hours or more daily. They are provided only once daily for part-time employees who work 5 hours or less daily. Rest breaks are on the clock, meaning you don’t have to clock-out for a rest break. Breaks can be taken any time after your first 2 hours on a given workday. Employees must remain in the building or the property during their rest break. Employees should use the break room rather than stay in the work area. So as not to cause a distraction to other workers, not on break. Please notify your supervisor/manager when a rest break is needed to ensure work is covered while you’re on break. Lunch Breaks Lunch breaks work similarly to rest breaks except that they are: 1) longer than rest breaks, and 2) the amount of time you’re on a lunch break is not paid time. With supervisor approval, employees are allowed to choose the amount of time they take for Lunch, between 30-60 minutes. Here’s how it works: Employees who work 6 or more hours a day are provided a lunch break. Part-time employees, or those who work 5 hours a day or less, do not get a lunch break. Employees who work over 10 hours in one shift are allowed to take two lunch breaks. It would help if you clocked out and/or recorded your lunch break as unpaid hours on your timesheet. Lunch breaks are typically taken after the first 3-4 hours on the job, depending on your schedule. Work with your supervisor to determine the best time to take your lunch break. You are encouraged to leave the property for your lunch break, but you are also welcome to use the lunch area or outdoor picnic area for your lunch break. Emergency Breaks We understand there are times when an employee has an emergency, such as when they feel ill or have to take an urgent phone call. Talk to your supervisor in these situations to accommodate your emergency. Break Time Policy Violations While our break-time policy is generous, breaks will be monitored to ensure that work does not suffer. Therefore, we reserve the right to discipline any employee found abusing our break time policy. For example, taking too many breaks, taking breaks that are too long, disturbing staff that are not on break, or abusing the use of emergency break time. Challenges to implementing employee lunch break policy The break policy for hourly employees has some implementation challenges that managers must be aware of. 1. Share policy with workers Only some workers will take time to look for the scheduled lunch break policy. Managers must ensure that workers know the policies regarding meal and rest breaks between shifts. While notice boards and circulars can do the trick, it is better to involve a notification system for sharing the break policy at work. 2. Compliance As labor laws change, it requires policies at work are updated every time there are amendments made to state or local labor laws. Compliance can be tricky if no software solution is in place to notify all workers when the employee break policy is updated. 3. Tracking employee time Providing lunch breaks is essential, but how do you ensure that workers abide by the company’s break policy? This is why monitoring employee time is mandatory, but it can be challenging if it has to be done manually. Employee time and attendance tracking software solutions can help. Truein for employee lunch break policy implementation Truein is an employee time and attendance software that offers real-time monitoring of work hours. A cloud-based, hardwareless app, Truein can easily be deployed at multiple sites. It has GPS geofencing and face recognition to prevent buddy punching and time theft . To ensure adherence to the employee break policy, it offers multiple punch-in and punch-outs so workers can take breaks per company policy. Using the Truein app, workers can request a break. Managers and supervisors are notified about the request and then can approve the request. It also features over 70 customizable policy templates that allow managers to create and maintain separate policies for contractual and permanent employees. Conclusion An employee lunch break policy is your way of providing workers with time to de-stress and rejuvenate between long hours of work. When implemented correctly, an employee break policy can benefit overall employee health and well-being, creating a happy workforce. For employers, it provides long-term benefits in productivity and efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Workforce Scheduling – The Importance, Benefits, and Solutions For A Business Workforce Scheduling – The Importance, Benefits, and Solutions For A Business May 28, 2024 In any industry where the workforce is the largest resource, it’s essential to take all measures necessary for workforce management . For such industries, workforce scheduling forms the foundation for smooth day-to-day business operations. If your company relies on labor for continued production and revenue generation, it’s essential to understand the principles of workforce scheduling optimization. Effective workforce scheduling and management have proven beneficial for revenue generation, profit, and employee satisfaction and well-being. The process requires managers to intensely scrutinize, plan, and optimize business strategies for workforce management. This article aims at explaining the concept of workforce scheduling. We will look at the benefits and challenges of workforce planning and how software can help overcome these challenges. Table of Contents What is workforce scheduling? How does workforce scheduling benefit your business? 1. Increases productivity 2. Cost control 3. Lowers worker turnover 4. Reduce unnecessary overtime The challenges of workforce scheduling 1. Tracking workers 2. Responding to changes How can scheduling software help? 1. Easy time tracking 2. Shift management flexibility 3. Customizable reports Truein for complete workforce scheduling What is workforce scheduling? Workforce scheduling is the pragmatic shift scheduling of hourly workers and laborers according to the current demands of the workplace, keeping the future demand forecast into account. Effective workforce scheduling involves maintaining schedules that make the transition from one shift to another seamless and ensures no interruption in productivity. It is also essential to provide enough workers present in a shift such that work remains uninterrupted. For optimal workforce scheduling, several factors need planning. For instance, if you’re scheduling for a retail business, you have to consider the hours during which the footfall is more. Every industry has its unique workforce scheduling requirements. That being said, some common factors, too, include employee skills, productivity, and availability. With industries adopting a dynamic workforce culture that allows them to hire more hourly workers, the workload changes frequently. For human resources, this is a nightmare as they have to change employee schedules to handle such workload changes often. This makes automated scheduling processes necessary for every industry. Today, traditional spreadsheets or timesheets are not regarded as efficient tools for workforce scheduling because there is much more to employee scheduling than simple timesheets. How does workforce scheduling benefit your business? With workforce scheduling optimization, there are some valuable benefits for any company. Any business can optimize its operations, maximize resources, create a balanced and positive workplace environment, and enhance profit generation through a workforce scheduling system. Here are some of the benefits of workforce scheduling. 1. Increases productivity When workers are effectively managed, it ultimately maximizes productivity. Workforce scheduling is the best way to automate the manual processes involved in workforce management, such as manual time tracking, attendance management, and report generation. By adopting workforce scheduling software, companies can provide managers with enhanced scheduling capabilities, saving them time to invest in activities that directly increase productivity. 2. Cost control Workforce scheduling optimization helps companies manage labor costs regarding operational efficiency and resource management. With proper scheduling, organizations eliminate the possibility of over or understaffing entirely. It is the best way to ensure that you have the correct number of workers on payroll to minimize labor costs. 3. Lowers worker turnover Workers have some expectations from their workplace, and if a company fails to meet them, they feel frustrated and burnout. This eventually leads to higher turnover. Workforce scheduling can help you keep employees engaged and motivated. It will prevent the outflow of workers from your company, and you will be able to attract the best talent available. With proper scheduling, companies can ensure that the workers are well-rested, engaged, and appreciated. If your workers feel that the workplace environment is incompetent and unfair, they will leave when they see an opportunity. 4. Reduce unnecessary overtime Unmanaged over time can be a disaster for any company. As the labor laws dictate, pay for overtime hours is almost twice the regular wages. If you are not effectively managing overtime within your company, it can directly affect the bottom line. With workforce scheduling, you can precisely track a worker’s time on a particular job. Based on the data, required managerial actions can be taken to reduce unnecessary overtime. It also helps minimize compliance issues. The challenges of workforce scheduling If this is your first time implementing workforce scheduling, there are some challenges that you must be aware of. Scheduling presents various challenges for any organization, and managers must balance many variables for effective workforce scheduling optimization. Let’s explore some of the biggest challenges. 1. Tracking workers Irrespective of the industry, workforce scheduling requires accurate tracking of workers. You must be aware of the number of workers available, the labor needed for a given shift, the location of the project, compliance requirements, and much more. Additionally, you must know the available resources within the company that, includes the number of employees, their skills, their qualifications, overtime status, etc. You can anticipate how overwhelming it will be to manage all these requirements manually in the absence of a workforce scheduling system. 2. Responding to changes Another major hurdle in workforce scheduling is responding to changes on short notice. Such changes can arise for several reasons, such as absences, sudden rise in staff requirements, or employee turnover without warning. For instance, if a worker calls in sick, their manager has to find a replacement immediately, which can be tricky. If such changes are handled manually, it will be very stressful for the managers and result in inefficient scheduling affecting workers’ health and engagement. How can scheduling software help? Today, workforce scheduling technology has evolved to automate any operational process for workforce scheduling optimization. AI-powered employee scheduling solutions like Truein can handle large workforces and create optimally balanced shifts for workers. Such applications also empower employees to take control of their schedules as they are notified of their shifts or any changes in real time. 1. Easy time tracking Workforce scheduling software can help you accurately track the number of work hours for workers. It puts you in a better position to make decisions regarding overtime and quickly identify situations that can result in understaffing or overstaffing. It also plays a critical role in complying with labor laws regarding overtime. 2. Shift management flexibility With software such as Truein, workers have access to their schedules. It puts them in a better position to request shift change or leave in case the need arises – for example if they have to attend urgent family obligations. This flexibility lowers the chance of absenteeism and improves employee satisfaction as they can take care of emergencies without losing pay. 3. Customizable reports The software eliminates the requirement for workforce managers to spend hours preparing shift schedules or reports on a spreadsheet. Automated and customizable reports save valuable HR hours and help calculate essential metrics such as absences per quarter, shift swaps by a particular employee, the pattern of increased workload, etc. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein for complete workforce scheduling Truein is a suite of employee time and attendance software and shift scheduling tools. A cloud-based, hardware-less solution, it has versatile workforce scheduling features that make it a perfect fit for any organization. This software solution can help companies manage shifts based on the work location through GPS geofencing. It can help you streamline workflow at multiple sites from the same dashboard. Truein allows job mapping functionality that allows workers to map their job at hand with the time. Managers can use its reporting to verify project progress and evaluate productivity using real-time metrics such as attendance. Truein gives complete control to managers to record, identify, and mitigate workforce scheduling issues. At the same time, it offers workers real-time awareness of their shift changes as they take place. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Scheduling Conflicts: Types of Scheduling Conflicts, Preventive Measures, and Solutions Business Continuity Planning for Small Business Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Timesheet Reminder: How To Get Employees To Submit Timesheets On Time Timesheet Reminder: How To Get Employees To Submit Timesheets On Time May 24, 2024 In an ideal situation, your business would have no payroll issues arising due to the incompliance of workers. When workers fail to submit their timesheets on time, it affects the entire payroll management. Getting workers to log their time is a tricky problem for managers. Only a few employees enjoy recording their work hours every day and then submit to their managers. Sometimes, timesheets are filled in correctly; sometimes, workers forget to punch in at the start of their shift, and sometimes they participate in buddy punching . According to an Adobe study , 56% of enterprise workers and 65% of SMB leaders find filling out timesheets significantly distracts employees from actual work. Employee time and attendance management software is the best option to automate timesheet management. However, if the workforce regularly needs more timesheets, it is a challenge for managers to decide how to get employees to submit timesheets on time. An easy solution is a timesheet reminder. Table of Contents What is a timesheet reminder? Why are employees not submitting timesheets on time? 1. Workers are unsure of what to record 2. They might be delaying it willingly 3. Timesheet keeping is tedious and unclear How to get employees to submit timesheets on time? 1. Create a policy around timesheet submission 2. Provide clear guidance on the deadline 3. Set up email reminders with automation Conclusion What is a timesheet reminder? A timesheet reminder, also known as a timecard reminder, is a written or spoken message or an automated notification prompting workers to track their time and submit timesheets. These reminders become necessary to ensure that work hours are logged accurately, and timesheets are submitted before the deadline. While timesheets are essential for employees and employers, it is still common to see workers failing to comply. Before you can take a corrective measure, it’s necessary to understand the reason behind their behavior. Why are employees not submitting timesheets on time? 1. Workers are unsure of what to record If your workers are unaware of the tasks and activities that should be included in timesheets, they can easily get confused and mess up their timesheets. Does time spent in meetings with supervisors count? What if workers are in the store room for some spare part collection? When there are no set guidelines, employees will have no idea what to log and what not to log. Managers should appropriately define billable and nonbillable activities and communicate with the workers. 2. They might be delaying it willingly Often workers wait until the last minute to submit their timesheets and then need to remember. But there are other reasons employees might fail to submit the timesheets. If workers finish their work earlier or later, they might hesitate to fill out their timesheets. It may be because they may assume they look inefficient or get more workload. This can also prompt them to fill in the timesheets inaccurately. 3. Timesheet keeping is tedious and unclear Manually filling out timesheets is a cumbersome exercise that every worker despises. The more details a timesheet requires, the harder it might be to fill. When your workers are busy with their shifts, it is unrealistic to spend time filling out forms to keep track of time throughout the day at work. This is another reason companies should switch from manual to automated employee time tracking. How to get employees to submit timesheets on time? Whatever may be the reason, there are some measures that you can take to ensure employees submit accurate records of hours worked within the deadline. Here are the steps you can take. 1. Create a policy around timesheet submission If your workers are not aware of the consequences they can face if they do not submit their timesheets on time, they will probably miss the deadline. Creating a clear and comprehensive timesheet policy that explains when and how workers should submit their timesheets is essential. Under the policy, managers can detail the rules regarding filling timesheets accurately daily. Mention why workers should submit timesheets when asked (you can say that early submission provides enough time for supervisor review and payroll processing that translates into accurate compensation). Include the period for timesheet submission, whether employees should submit them on the same day, weekly, or monthly. It is also helpful to designate a person to answer any inquiries regarding timesheet-keeping procedures. The same person can be responsible for onboarding new hires and helping them with the timesheet submission process for the first time. 2. Provide clear guidance on the deadline The deadline for timesheets depends on the payroll cycle. A company can have multiple payroll cycles – employees getting paid hourly, weekly, or monthly. You should provide clear guidance on when a particular worker should submit the timesheet depending on his role and payroll schedule. 3. Set up email reminders with automation If you are in the retail or hospitality industry where managers are often busy with customer service, it can be hard to keep monitoring and reminding workers to clock in or out every day without fail. Lapses occur, which if not taken care of can make payroll calculations hard at the end of the month. The managers will scramble to know whether the worker was present or worked their scheduled shift on days they missed clock in or clock out. A simple and highly effective solution is to adopt software that sends daily timesheet reminders. It is a simple yet highly effective measure to ensure employees remember to clock in or out daily. If you are not using an employee time and attendance management software like Truein, then you can set up simple email reminders to alert workers to clock in and out on time and when it is time to submit their timesheets. Here is a sample timesheet reminder email for staff who haven’t filled out their timesheet. Subject: Timesheet Submission Reminder Dear [Employee’s Name], I hope this message finds you well. As we approach another week, I would like to take a moment to remind you about the importance of submitting your timesheet in a timely manner. Accurate and punctual timesheet submissions are crucial for several reasons: 1. Payroll Processing: Timely timesheet submissions ensure that you receive your salary without any delays. 2. Project Tracking: Your timesheet data helps us track project progress and allocate resources efficiently. 3. Compliance: Accurate timesheets are essential for compliance with labor laws and company policies. 4. Transparency: It promotes transparency and accountability within our organization. We kindly request that you submit your timesheet for the current pay period by [Deadline Date], which is [X] days away. If you have already submitted your timesheet, we appreciate your promptness. To submit your timesheet, please follow these steps: 1. Log in to our timekeeping system using your credentials. 2. Select the current pay period. 3. Enter your hours worked each day, making sure to include any overtime or leave hours as necessary. 4. Review your entries for accuracy. 5. Click the “Submit” button. If you encounter any issues or have questions about the timesheet submission process, please don’t hesitate to reach out to [HR/Timekeeping Support Contact] for assistance. We understand that everyone has a busy schedule, and timely submissions help us maintain the smooth operation of our payroll and project management processes. Thank you for your attention to this matter and for your dedication to our company’s success. Your efforts are truly valued. Best regards, [Your Name] [Your Title] [Company Name] [Contact Information] Truein is a cloud-based, hardware-less employee time and attendance management system offering a timesheet reminder feature. With this nifty feature, timesheet reminders are completely automated and HR is saved from all the hassles of notifying workers who fail to comply with the company’s timesheet-keeping policy. Here is how you can set up a timecard reminder alert on the Truein user app in a few simple steps: Open the Settings option from the Account menu in the user app. Under the “Enable Attendance Alert,” you will have two options: Previous Day In-Out Time: This will notify workers based on their previous day’s punch time. Scheduled Time: Workers can set a time to receive a timesheet reminder alert notification. Click Save once changes are made. Truein gives freedom from writing timesheet submission emails to workers every time they miss timesheet deadlines. By setting up a simple, friendly reminder, employees can be alerted. Schedule a demo today and try Truein for free! “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion When employees are repeatedly late with turning in their timesheets, it can be a frustrating experience for the managers. However, the inability to submit timesheets differs from the reason for not accurately paying your workers. Companies must properly train workers and make them aware of appropriate disciplinary actions. A transparent and progressive timesheet-keeping policy avoids such situations. But the most effective measure is to utilize an automated tool like Truein to improve timekeeping procedures and set timesheets reminder. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Top 5 Employee Scheduling Software for Businesses (2023) Top 5 Employee Scheduling Software for Businesses (2023) May 28, 2024 Any company running shift-based scheduling requires tools for workforce management. You lose productivity and sales if your organization still depends on paper timesheets and spreadsheets to schedule labor and it can also result in high labor costs. Employee scheduling is essential to ensure that business operations can function smoothly while at the same time, employee scheduling apps enable managers, and supervisors to quickly look at data and allocate workers into various timeslots. We have picked the 5 best employee scheduling apps of 2023 to help you automate the tedious and error-prone process of employee scheduling. Table of Contents Top 5 Employee Scheduling Apps 1. Truein Features: Pros: Cons: 2. Homebase Features: Pros: Cons: 3. Fourth Features: Pros: Cons: 4. Sling Features: Pros: Cons: 5. mHelpDesk Features: Pros: Cons: What features should you look for choosing an employee scheduling app? 1. Scheduling and shift management 2. Timekeeping 3. Payroll integration 4. Cost Benefits of employee scheduling software 1. Business efficiency 2. Ensures Smooth business operations 3. Cost savings Conclusion Top 5 Employee Scheduling Apps 1. Truein Truein is an employee scheduling software for medium and large-scale enterprises, contract workers, distributed staff, retail chains, and on-the-go field employees. Its selfie-based geo-fencing technology allows employees to record attendance from their mobile or tablet. The AI-powered facial recognition algorithm can screen for facial attributes like masks, beards, or specs to identify workers. The company has clients in manufacturing, construction, mining, services, facility management, etc. This mass adoption is due to the robustness of Truein as a cloud-based, face-recognition employee time and attendance monitoring software. Features: Complete shift scheduling Selfie attendance with geo-fencing Kiosk mode (Touchless) Leave and overtime management Supports multiple in-out Integration with HRMS/Payroll Admin dashboard (web and mobile) Offline attendance Reports and analytics Employee directory Pros: Real-time view of multiple sites Better scheduling with centralized controls 70+ customizable policies for attendance, leave, and overtime management Payroll-ready reports with automated timesheet calculations Cons: There are no free plans. You could however schedule a trial demo . 2. Homebase Homebase offers premade schedule templates that allow managers to create work rosters easily. It also has the option to create smart work schedules to forecast labor costs. There is a free mobile app available for employees to download. While Homebase has employee scheduling, time tracking, and communication tools, it is suitable for sectors like retail, beauty, and hospitality but not for industries like construction and manufacturing. Features: Homebase scheduler automatically calculates overtime Alerts for schedule conflicts Sales data and forecasts integration Pros: Free app A ‘Forever free’ basic plan Easy to make schedules with templates Ability to text employees directly Cons: With applicant messages, there is no way to block or end communications When importing hours into the payroll system there is no way to separate overtime from normal hours. Also, notifications are reported to be not punctual at times. 3. Fourth If you are looking for employee scheduling software for the enterprise-level workforce, then Fourth is the app we recommend. Its robust work scheduling module automates all the processes, saving many resources for managers and employees. Features: Users report faster work schedule creation The ability for future workforce capabilities Tools to control labor costs and budgets Pros: Scheduling on a large scale Automatic compliance Forecasting functionality Cons: Only suitable for the retail and hospitality industry No free plan It’s not as lightweight as the Truein app and is reported to slow down devices Workers are not able to access the data or updates outside the work 4. Sling Sling combines schedule planning and absence management features. It helps simplify shift management and avoids conflicts within the team with an absence schedule. You can create shifts and schedules through copy to easily create recurring shifts and eliminate repeated entries. Features: Copy shifts and schedules between days and weeks Social Space feature allows workers to interact Task management to keep employees accountable Schedule and monitor multiple locations from one dashboard Pros: Long-term scheduling Labor cost management Calendar synchronization Free plan available Cons: Not suitable for every industry There is no option for workers to request leave or overtime updates from managers No flexibility to accommodate contract workers 5. mHelpDesk Designed as field service management software, this application is yet another powerful tool for employee scheduling. If your business deals in services like technical repairs, service staff, and workforce, you can use mHelpDesk for scheduling, billing, and communication between managers, coworkers, and laborers. Features: End-to-end workforce management Track workers in real-time Scheduling and dispatching Drag and drop calendar Staff communication Pros: Mobile access Offline access for scheduling and attendance Estimation and budgeting GPS tracking Cons: Only for the services sector Does not support multiple administrator types like Truein Its mobile tracking feature is reported to be inaccurate at times What features should you look for choosing an employee scheduling app? Here are some crucial features you shouldn’t miss while choosing an employee scheduling software. 1. Scheduling and shift management Smaller businesses with a few workers can manage with manual scheduling tools or free scheduling plans with software solutions. However, suppose your business requires 24-hour shift coverage. If you operate out of multiple locations or have a large workforce, you will need an employee scheduling app that offers complete scheduling and shift management. Choose a product that provides features like shift optimization, shift-swapping, schedule publishing, auto schedulers, and leave tracking. 2. Timekeeping Any employee scheduling software should have timekeeping features such as clock in and out, time-off requests, timesheet approvals, compliance tracking, etc. Advanced employee scheduling applications with features like geofenced clock-in and facial recognition are best because they help your business against labor and time fraud thus saving both man-hours and money. 3. Payroll integration One of the intrinsic goals of implementing employee scheduling software is to improve productivity and HR automation. The team scheduling app you choose must have a payroll integration feature. When you minimize human intervention in labor hour calculation, you reduce errors and ensure accurate compensation. This saves a lot of time otherwise spent on payroll calculation and also results in higher worker satisfaction. 4. Cost Every company has a different pricing policy. Some charge per-employee fee plans, others offer a one-time fee, while some charge a monthly fee for a set number of accounts. You shouldn’t be penny-wise, pound foolish while choosing an app and choose the cheapest one. First, narrow down the features that you are looking at, compare various apps, and then opt for an employee schedule that provides you with these features at a sustainable cost. Benefits of employee scheduling software 1. Business efficiency The ability to quickly create schedules and give staff access to their shifts via a mobile application hugely improves business efficiency. 2. Ensures Smooth business operations With scheduling apps, you can track shift availability, allow shift swaps, maintain full shift coverage, and implement varying compliance rules to keep running day-to-day operations smoothly. Irrespective of your business type and size, efficient staffing ensures high productivity, shelves are stocked, and projects are completed and delivered on time. 3. Cost savings Efficient scheduling saves hours by improving management productivity. Furthermore, overtime tracking and demand-based shift optimizations prevent redundancies in the scheduling process and reduce payroll costs. Also, correctly tracking employee work hours helps adherence to compliance factors avoiding penalties and fines. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Companies still using manual employee scheduling tools are wasting valuable resources. Instead of investing hours in calculating work hours, scheduling shifts, and managing attendance and leaves, an employee scheduling app could significantly improve your business’ efficiency and productivity. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 5 Best Employee Scheduling Software for Businesses in Dubai, UAE Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them May 17, 2024 The modern working environment is changing at an unprecedented faster pace. HR leaders encounter many challenges as organizations get impacted by the disruptive change of priorities among employees due to the adoption of new business models. According to the Today and Tomorrow survey conducted by PricewaterhouseCoopers for the World Federation of Personnel Management Associations (WFPMA), 48% of the surveyed HR professionals feel a need for change in management policies. Also, most respondents agree that nurturing ‘human skills’ is the second most crucial challenge after ‘building trust.’ Furthermore, 91% of respondents agree that employees see being part of an organization trusted by society as critical to their future. Keeping these developments in mind, in this article, we will explore the challenges faced by HR as new work cultures rise and better work/life balance becomes mandatory. Table of Contents 1. Attracting and retaining good talent 2. Making Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) a strategic goal 3. Compensation and Benefits 4. Prioritizing employee mental and emotional well-being 5. Equipping future leaders 6. Not being able to automate routine tasks 7. Being well-versed with people analytics 8. Positive change management 9. Upgrading the recruitment and onboarding tools 10. Continuous learning and succession planning Conclusion 1. Attracting and retaining good talent More than 4.3 million people voluntarily quit their jobs by the end of 2021, as per the US Bureau of Labor Statistics. Employees have gone more discerning about what they want from their jobs, so they are looking for opportunities that better match their talent and offer flexibility. Attracting and retaining a good workforce is a significant challenge for HRs in 2023. It is even more difficult for small and medium enterprises since workers seek opportunities that offer better benefits, where more prominent brands often shine. Attracting talent is one part of the challenge, but it also goes beyond recruitment. Retention of blue-collar workers through various initiatives like offering better increments, health benefits, work-life balance, and opportunities to learn is also essential. HR leaders should build a stronger employer brand to overcome this challenge. They should check social platforms like Glassdoor and Great Place to Work . These platforms can help create a solid and positive employer brand as the information shared about your organization here is privy to prospective employees. Active Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities can help build an emotional platform for prospective employee-employer bonding. For instance, presenting employees with opportunities to contribute to causes they are passionate about. Companies can arrange for skills-based micro-volunteering opportunities through platforms like Catchafire where employees can contribute with their skills rather than donating money. Furthermore, HR managers should create a structured onboarding process that helps recruits get accustomed to the new work environment quickly. Integrating technology into the hiring process can significantly enhance efficiency. Online talent acquisition software plays a key role in streamlining candidate interactions, managing resumes, and tracking the progress of applicants through the hiring pipeline. With the ability to automate routine tasks, such software allows HR teams to focus on strategic aspects of recruitment, ultimately expediting the identification of the right talent. 2. Making Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) a strategic goal According to Gartner, 69% of companies have identified that workforce diversity and inclusion are essential for strategic development in the wake of the hybrid work culture. Yet, only 35% of HR leaders prioritize DEI for the coming years. In 2023, challenges faced by human resource management include DEI-related issues. HR leaders will have to diversify the workforce to create an inclusionary working environment. To create a diversified workforce, you have to be strategic and person-specific. You can leverage diverse job boards like Recruit Disability which helps locate people with disability looking for work. In the age of remote work, it’s also possible to lean into DEI principles by hiring internationally . Leveraging remote technology to acquire talent from overseas not only helps you uncover a wider range of potential candidates, but it can also enable you to embrace diverse experiences, perspectives, and ways of thinking. A recommended move is to highlight diversity on the career page of your organization’s website to let prospective employees know you support DEI. 3. Compensation and Benefits Amid growing competition to hire talent and the great resignation, employees revisit the compensation and benefits requirements . Companies offer pay increases, more benefits, and going beyond the norms to provide perks like health benefits and flexibility. If HR leaders are not ready with a strategy to match talent expectations, it will be tough to recruit and retain top talent in 2023. The solution lies in designing a compensation structure that best fits your organization and meets industry standards. One of the significant challenges HR managers face is deciding what benefits matter in 2023; you should do some market research. Workers want more flexibility; it is a substantial benefit to offer. Another way to ensure a return on investment is to provide variable performance-based components. Such performance-linked rewards will keep employees motivated to perform at their best. 4. Prioritizing employee mental and emotional well-being In the wake of the pandemic, workers’ mental health and resilience are at the forefront in 2023 . Employee well-being is no longer just about physical well-being but has mental and emotional well-being as essential aspects. As the hybrid work environment blurs the line between work and personal life, companies will be required to invest heavily in improving employee well-being to remain resilient and confident. There is a need to make arrangements for a positive and healthier work environment for field staff. They should not feel the stress of too drastic changes in work culture due to the adoption of new technologies. Employee well-being has evolved beyond physical well-being to include the development of a holistic well-being culture. Future Workplace has identified the top seven pillars of holistic employee well-being : Physical well-being Career well-being Financial well-being Social well-being Community well-being Emotional well-being Purpose-driven well-being HR managers should focus on these pillars and create a strategy to address all seven. 5. Equipping future leaders In a survey, the leadership consulting firm DDI surveyed 368 CEOs and 2,102 HR professionals to understand how ready their leaders are to take more responsibility in the future. Surprisingly, the respondents rated only 38% of their mid-level leaders as “very good,” or “excellent” rest were not satisfactory in the role. In 2023, one of the biggest challenges faced by HRM is the global talent shortage. The onus is on the HR leaders to nurture talent within the organization for long-term success. HR leaders must work on strategies that upskill mid-level managers to prepare them as future leaders for better promotional opportunities. The focus must be on nurturing empathy-driven managers who consciously address the needs of their subordinates. 6. Not being able to automate routine tasks HR responsibilities are shifting in the hybrid work culture. The HR managers should be focusing more on the strategic areas that lead to business development rather than wasting time on repetitive administrative tasks. Interestingly, according to McKinsey, we have the technologies available to automate 56% of human resource functions . Automating routine administrative tasks can help you focus on aspects that directly impact employee engagement and retention. While technology cannot replace teamwork, communication, or collaboration, it can help human resource specialists focus on understanding people, which is crucial in developing work relationships. An example of how automation can help HR is by using software-based time tracking and attendance management . Recording employee time and attendance can be automated with solutions like Truein which is a face recognition attendance system that automates the entire process and integrates with most payroll solutions. Implementing such systems help HR leaders make payroll more effective and increase productivity while minimizing human errors. 7. Being well-versed with people analytics People analytics will give organizations a lead in the competition. In 2023, deploying analytics, virtual work technology, and using more comprehensive learning platforms is essential. HR managers can no longer make decisions based on their intuition; rather, the success lies with data-driven decision-making. For a long time, organizations have relied on gut feeling, intuition, and prior experience policies. HR should take up the challenge to introduce people analytics in the Workplace to make more confident decisions. HR managers can move beyond administrators and become value generators by implementing people analytics. To maximize the value you get from people analytics investment, make sure you establish a culture of constant listening. Transparent listening help over challenges faced by HR in team building. 8. Positive change management Over 54% of HR leaders Gartner surveyed on their 2023 goals reported change anxiety . The survey found that little day-to-day adjustments like adjusting to the new hybrid work environment, new teammates, a new boss, or tiny process shifts caused 2.5 times more exhaustion in employees than any significant revolutionary changes. Given that change is inevitable in the fast-paced, ever-changing corporate world, change management is one of the biggest challenges facing human resource management in the 21st century. These changes can be structural, economic, geographical, managerial, procedural, and, most commonly, technological. Inability to foresee, plan or predict these changes can lead to lower productivity, unpreparedness, and high attrition. Businesses that survive unforeseen disruptions like the COVID-19 epidemic are the ones that proactively embrace changes rather than reacting to external causes. Since the pandemic, organizations have adopted an “adapt or perish” mentality, but actual sustainable survival is only possible when companies embrace change as part of their culture. The best practice to manage change positively is to predict it and prepare the workers to adapt to these changes. Not every employee will react positively to sudden change, which is why communicating the changes early on is better so that employees can make adjustments at their own pace. 9. Upgrading the recruitment and onboarding tools As hiring the best talent becomes fiercer, HR managers have to adopt new technological tools for recruiting like AI and Machine Learning to refine the recruitment process. AI is making it easier for HR to hire talent remotely by assisting with remote recruitment, interviewing, and onboarding . Most companies are already using artificial intelligence to screen resumes through Applicant Tracking Systems . The requirement for a human viewpoint will always be there as AI can speed up the hiring process, but issues like discrimination and unequal hiring practices still need human intervention. 10. Continuous learning and succession planning In the end, HR is responsible for providing an environment that stimulates the growth and success of employees. But when the work culture is becoming more and more hybrid, it is challenging to promote upskilling and continuous learning. HRM is responsible for fostering an environment of learning to match the rising ambitions of employees. It is essential because 94% of employees agree that they will voluntarily stay with a company longer if it invests in their learning and upskilling. Therefore, HR managers must identify training relevant to the current trends. Also, they need to adopt a practical rather than theoretical approach to upskill employees. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion In 2023, the challenges faced by HR leaders will be complicated, and so organizations need employee integration, cooperation, and transparent communication to grow in a hybrid work environment. HR managers must manage the challenges we have listed here to help their organizations succeed through a diverse and productive workforce. Human Resource Management remains a crucial aspect necessary to building a unique workplace culture in the current scenario. Proper management of these challenges will eliminate employee uncertainties, providing the organization with a competitive advantage. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 17, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 17, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 17, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 17, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 17, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them New Year Resolution For HRs in 2023 Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Time Tracking Software for Construction That Will Boost Productivity Time Tracking Software for Construction That Will Boost Productivity May 28, 2024 As a construction contractor, you know the challenge of tracking worker hours, especially if your project is multisite. Any construction company cannot maintain smooth business operations if there is no measure to monitor team performance. Fortunately, with the best time-tracking software for the construction industry available, it’s a lot easier now to track employee work hours. This also helps with workforce scheduling, labor cost management, and project streamlining. You would want to switch to automated construction time tracking over manual methods for several reasons. Manual time tracking requires hours of complicated (and unnecessary) calculations by managers. Instead, a time-tracking app for construction can automatically log work hours faster and more accurately. This is not the only benefit of adopting time-tracking tools for your construction business, there are advantages for payroll and client billing too. In this article, we explore the best time-tracking software for construction. Before we begin, let’s take a closer look at why your construction business requires time-tracking software. Table of Contents Benefits of time tracking software for construction 1. Improved project management 2. Higher productivity 3. Manage labor work time more efficiently 4. Construction timesheet reporting Top 7 time tracking software for the construction industry 1. Truein Features: 2. QuickBooks Time Features: 3. Proofhub 4. Time Analytics Features: 5. BigTime 6. Justworks Hours Features: 7. ExakTime Features: Case Study: How Truein helped KAD Constructions optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakage? Conclusion Benefits of time tracking software for construction Time tracking of work hours is essential for any business that hires hourly workers. Construction is even more critical as the reliance on the labor force is much more in the industry. A time tracking software for construction can provide the following benefits. 1. Improved project management Project management is an integral part of any construction job. As there are so many variables to monitor and track, having a tool to get real-time information about the project can make things a lot easier. You can monitor the project’s progress to keep it in sync with the deadline. Also, the time tracking apps can help you calculate the labor and project cost accurately, ensuring that the project remains within budget. 2. Higher productivity With the best time-tracking app for construction, you can accurately monitor and record work hours. This data can then be compared with costs to identify any unproductive behavior among workers. With the right time-tracking software, you can make your construction business a lot more productive and profitable. 3. Manage labor work time more efficiently Time-tracking apps can help project managers and supervisors manage workers’ work hours more effectively. With these apps, managers can track how onsite workers spend their time daily, weekly, or monthly. There are options to track hours spent on the project, time off, clock in/out, and overtime. 4. Construction timesheet reporting For any construction project, you will need reports providing valuable data regarding costing, labor efficiency, productivity, and project profitability. Time-tracking software can generate powerful reports that assist project managers in making data-driven decisions. Now for all these benefits, you will have to choose the best time-tracking software. Our experts picked the top 5 best time-tracking apps for your construction business. Top 7 time tracking software for the construction industry 1. Truein Truein is one of the construction industry’s most robust employee time and attendance software . It is a cloud-based solution that is hardware-less making it highly portable. Construction companies can deploy Truein to any number of sites while monitoring the sites from a central dashboard. This is the best time-tracking software for construction because it utilizes AI-powered facial recognition technology to provide a foolproof time-tracking solution for your business. It also has a feature to maintain different time and attendance policies for the contractual workforce. It is a significant feature in helping project managers manage contract workers. Features: Offline and mobile device time tracking: With Truein’s offline attendance mode, workers can continue time tracking even if they face internet connectivity issues. Mobile app time tracking allows workers to clock in from remote sites with GPS geofencing. Instant setup for workers: With face recognition and geofencing, supervisors on site can instantly set up time tracking for laborers on site. You can onboard workers for your construction project from anywhere. Shift schedule: Complete control over workforce scheduling. Managers can create and share shifts with the workers. You can plan in advance and automatically allot shifts depending on worker availability. Payroll-ready reports: Apart from real-time monitoring of work hours, Truein can generate reports with analytics data helping project managers make data-driven decisions. Portable: Construction companies can deploy Truein on mobile/tablet without any hardware components. It is an excellent feature for construction projects when multiple sites are involved. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. QuickBooks Time Quickbooks Time is another time-tracking app for construction businesses that offers basic features like timesheet management, job and shift scheduling, and billable hour calculation. While there is a GPS time tracking, unlike Truein, this software requires a standalone dedicated digital time kiosk to be on-site. Features: Automatic billable hours calculation Ability to coordinate teams, schedule tasks, and track time Ready integration with the Quickbooks payroll software Reporting tools generate detailed profit & loss statements, expenses, and balance sheets 3. Proofhub ProofHub is an all-in-one project management and team collaboration tool with a built-in time tracker for managing construction activities and time-driven projects. With ProofHub you can set time estimates for various tasks and monitor the time spent on those tasks by various employees. ProofHub provides you with a centralized dashboard to schedule tasks, track project progress, manage budgets, track time, create reports, plan resources, and manage inventory. Features: Quickly export time sheets in the form of CSV files or any other required format Automated timers help you monitor time spent by various employees that are saved to timesheets. Flat pricing ensures that you can add as many users as you want without any additional cost. Powerful collaboration features such as Discussion, Notes, and comments with @mention for having your team members on the same page. Built-in chat for 1:1 as well as group chats for sharing information and files quickly among team members. Integration with Quickbooks for forecasting project costs and client invoicing. 4. Time Analytics Time Analytics simplifies time tracking while offering essential features. This app excels in billable time tracking and timesheet management, aiming to enhance productivity and efficiency within a company, ensuring a positive return on investment (ROI). Features: Streamlined time tracking solution: Effortlessly monitor hours and expenses, allowing efficient project management and automated cost distribution. Project profitability analysis : Utilize reporting tools to monitor billable hours, assess project and client profitability, identify revenue gaps, and streamline administrative tasks Project profitability analysis : Leverage reporting features to track billable hours and billing efficiency, gain insights into project and client profitability, pinpoint missing profits 5. BigTime BigTime is a time-tracking software for construction that features real-time time tracking, customizable timesheets, user management, billable hours calculation, and invoicing. The customizable timesheets allow you to add multiple fields with user permission; you can set them to view only for workers. Features: Available as a SaaS service and can be used on any device, including smartphones. However, its mobile version is less versatile than Truein and is reported by contractors to be restrictive. Customizable timesheets for adjustment according to your business needs Expense tracking functionality to track pending employee reimbursement Auto-save, auto-complete, and smart lookups for faster report creation 6. Justworks Hours Justworks Hours was previously known as Boomr, this time-tracking app for construction offers automated, seamless time tracking for workforce management. It is another construction timesheet app that provides payroll and accounting capabilities. You can track your workers in real time, monitor their time on site on any device, and get overtime alerts. However, a limitation is a lack of customizable policy templates available with Truein. Features: Real-time project tracking to monitor workers’ progress throughout the project Mobile and desktop time tracking available Payroll, accounting, and invoicing are integrated into the app Ability to manage shifts, GPS tracking, and generate reports 7. ExakTime ExakTime is a cloud-based construction time tracking software like Truein that offers hardware-less deployment onsite. It provides managers and supervisors options to view all the GPS time punches on the map. You can edit time in bulk, create reports, and set up policies from a central dashboard. While the ExakTime mobile app supports GPS tracking and photo verification, it is not the same as the AI-based face recognition of the Truein app, which is the safest option. Features: Easy-to-use ExakTime mobile app for simple clock-in and out GPS tracking for onsite time tracking of workers Easy integration with payroll software like Quickbooks These are the top 5 time-tracking software for the construction industry. Comparing features and pros and cons, Truein stands out as a complete time-tracking app for contractors. Truein is the best time-tracking software for construction because its impressive features make it the safest bet for construction businesses. Several construction companies have already implemented Truein for time tracking and attendance monitoring of their workforce. One such name is KAD Constructions. Case Study: How Truein helped KAD Constructions optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakage? KAD Constructions is a multi-disciplined Engineering & Construction company in UAE undertaking strategic infrastructure projects. As one of the most reliable contracting companies in the region, the company employs over 900 construction workers working on several sites. The challenge company faced is with workforce management across several sites. Monitoring laborers and other people on site were difficult. Also, the company was performing leave management manually. It caused poor productivity and inaccuracies in payroll, which prompted KAD Constructions to look for the best time-tracking software. They needed a holistic time tracking software to completely automate their workforce time and attendance management. It included overtime, leave attendance, and policy management. Truein offered an out-of-the-box solution to all the challenges KAD Constructions faced. Our time-tracking software comes with centralized controls to monitor and manage multiple sites from the same dashboard. This helped KAD Construction eliminate the need for project managers to manage every site manually. With Truein’s leave management module , the company could implement the provision of multi-level hierarchy-wise approval. It made it much easier to identify absenteeism and pattern of leaves within the workforce. Also, accurate time tracking and shift scheduling options allowed KAD Constructions to balance workload better, improving productivity among the workers. It also enhanced their revenue. Furthermore, integration with payroll ensured accurate compensation for workers every time, saving HR from hours of work hour calculations. Ultimately, managers at KAD Constructions agree that their attendance, policy, and compliance management challenges were mitigated by Truein. You can also make your construction business more productive, profitable, and better with Truein. Talk to us now! Conclusion Time-tracking software for construction is a requirement and not a choice. As the market offers dozens of solutions, making your choice based on features essential for your business is important. Truein remains a leading time-tracking software for construction that ensures you work smarter and stay on top of your market with impeccable workforce time tracking. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice omkarm Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies May 31, 2024 The role of human resources has become more critical than ever. Human resource (HR) professionals are tasked with managing the most valuable asset of any organization, i.e., its employees. However, with increasing demands and complex challenges, HR productivity can often be a daunting task. That’s why it’s crucial for HR teams to explore effective strategies that can optimize their productivity and make a significant impact on the overall success of the organization. Well, in this post, you will learn about proven strategies that can help HR professionals streamline their processes, enhance efficiency, and ultimately drive meaningful results. We’ve compiled five top-tier strategies to supercharge your HR productivity without skimping on quality or personal touch. Let’s begin! Table of Contents 5 Effective Strategies To Improve HR Productivity 1. Make Use of Technology & Automation (But Don’t Forget the Human Touch) 2. Invest in Robust HR Software 3. Create a Performance-Oriented Culture 4. Never Stop Learning 5. Master the Art of Time Management Conclusion 5 Effective Strategies To Improve HR Productivity 1. Make Use of Technology & Automation (But Don’t Forget the Human Touch) Indeed, automation is the secret sauce to propelling HR productivity. From recruiting and onboarding to performance management, automating repetitive tasks saves time and decreases errors. Plus, it allows HR professionals to focus on more meaningful, strategic responsibilities. But that really doesn’t mean to let automation depersonalize your process. Remember, your department is the face of the company, shaping the employee experience from day one. 2. Invest in Robust HR Software Modern problems require modern solutions, right? Hence, investing in a comprehensive HR software suite can be a game-changer. Using such tools help streamline administrative duties, enhance data management, and improve communication. It’s like having an extra set of hands! However, ensure your software is user-friendly and customizable to your company’s needs. After all, a tool is only as good as the hands that wield it. 3. Create a Performance-Oriented Culture We’ve all heard it: “Culture eats strategy for breakfast.” The practice of promoting a performance-oriented culture encourages continuous learning and improvement. This, in turn, boosts overall productivity. You must prioritize transparent communication, recognition for excellent work, and consistent feedback. This approach not only improves productivity but also enhances employee satisfaction and retention. However, you may also add selected HRs to your in-house team and skyrocket your business capabilities. If you are not sure, you can also go for IT staff augmentation and increase your reach to better employment. 4. Never Stop Learning Staying in the know is crucial in the ever-evolving world of HR. Encourage continuous learning by promoting training, webinars, and professional development courses. This not only keeps your HR team ahead of industry trends but also nurtures a growth mindset. Equip your team with the knowledge and tools they need to succeed, and watch productivity soar. 5. Master the Art of Time Management In HR, every minute counts. Effective time management can be the difference between meeting recruitment deadlines or letting top talent slip through the cracks. So master this skill by setting SMART goals , prioritizing tasks, and avoiding multitasking. Remember, it’s about working smarter, not harder. Happy Growing! “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion There you have it! Boosting HR productivity isn’t just about working more efficiently. Rather, it’s about working more effectively. It’s about enhancing your team’s skills, investing in the right tools, and creating an environment that nurtures growth. So go ahead, implement these strategies, and witness your HR productivity skyrocket. Unleash your potential and transform your workplace today! Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Time Tracking Software for Construction That Will Boost Productivity Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost May 28, 2024 For any organization, keeping the labor cost low is one of the priorities. It is how you can keep profitability high, and overtime costs low. Still, many companies keep labor costs in their reports when they analyze profit and loss. This can result in poor efficiency and overspending. The only solution to the problem is to learn how to calculate labor costs. Simple. However, calculating labor costs is not as simple as there are some factors to consider and how different types of costs involved. This blog covers everything you need to know about calculating labor costs. Table of Contents Understanding labor cost Components of labor cost Benefits of calculating labor cost 1. Payroll taxes 2. Training costs 3. Labor-related expenses Calculating labor cost Factors affecting labor cost 1. Skill requirements 2. Compensation 3. Labor productivity 3. Labor laws and regulations Strategies to control labor cost 1. Workforce planning and scheduling 2. Time and attendance tracking 3. Performance management Conclusion FAQs Can I calculate labor costs based on an employee's annual salary alone? How can I reduce labor costs without compromising productivity? Are labor costs the same across all industries? Should I include training costs in labor cost calculations? How often should I recalculate labor costs? Understanding labor cost Labor cost refers to the total expenditure incurred by a business in employing and compensating its workforce. It’s not just about the wages or salaries paid to the workers but also includes all the related costs, such as social security and Medicare taxes, that employers are mandated to pay. Understanding labor cost is essential because it is a significant component of your organization’s overall expenses and is crucial in determining profitability and budgeting. To ensure that unmanaged labor cost is not impacting your bottom line, you must compare them to your revenue to ensure business growth. Components of labor cost To truly understand how to calculate labor cost, it’s necessary to know the components of labor cost. These components together affect the overall expenditure on the workforce and include: Base salaries or wages It is the regular agreed-upon amount paid to the employees or hourly wages regularly. The job position, skills, and experience determine the base salary. Overtime wages Overtime pay is one of the most significant components of labor costs and is usually 1.5 or 2 times the regular pay. Bonuses These are additional employee payments for performance, meeting targets, or achieving specific goals. Benefits of calculating labor cost The costs associated with offering work benefits such as health insurance paid time off, and retirement contributions. 1. Payroll taxes Employers also pay taxes based on employees’ wages, such as federal, state, and local taxes, social security contributions, and Medicare taxes. 2. Training costs Some organizations have training and development programs that incur costs for skill development programs, workshops, and seminars. 3. Labor-related expenses Uniforms, tools, equipment, and other items necessary for workers to work more productively are miscellaneous costs. Calculating labor cost You must know all the components listed above to calculate the labor cost. Once you have those values, it’s a simple calculation. Here’s how to calculate the labor cost per hour: Labor cost per hour = (gross pay + all annual costs) / actual worked hours per year A non-exempt worker gets paid $15 per hour; how will you calculate their labor cost? First, we calculate their gross pay. It is calculated as Gross pay = gross hourly rate x number of hours worked during the pay period For a worker, the total number of hours per year will be calculated as follows: The total number of hours per year = 40 hours per week (assuming they worked minimum hours) x 52 weeks = 2080 hours Therefore, the gross payment will be: $15 x 2080 hours = $ 31200. Hourly labor cost You must know how to calculate labor cost per hour for hourly workers. In our example, the hourly wage is $15. But we want to calculate the total hourly cost per hour. Here’s the formula to do it: Hourly labor cost = annual payroll cost / actual hours worked First, we need to find the actual hours worked. For that, we will use this formula: Actual worked hours = total number of hours per year – hours not worked Suppose the employee worked for less than 10 days in the year. So, their actual worked hours will be = 2080 hours – (10 x 8)hours = 2000 hours. Next, the annual payroll cost = gross pay + other annual costs. In our example, all other costs, such as benefits and overtime, are $1500. So, the annual payroll cost = $ 31200 + $1500 = $ 32700. Finally, hourly labor cost = $32700/2000 hours = $16.35. Factors affecting labor cost Given several components of labor costs it is evident that it is affected by various factors. You must know these factors to manage labor cost and bring it down effectively. 1. Skill requirements Different industries have varying labor cost structures, mainly based on the supply and demand of skilled workers. You can expect higher labor costs if there is a shortage of skilled labor. 2. Compensation The level of employee compensation you offer, including wages, salaries, and benefits, directly affects labor costs. While you can control the several compensation benefits you offer, such as merit increases, performance-based bonuses, and health insurance contributions, you still need these costs to attract the right employees. It’s a balancing act that managers have to master. 3. Labor productivity If the workers spend hours at the job but are not productive, it will be negative labor costs as you are not generating revenue from the salaries paid. This is why you must focus on efficient and productive employees who can generate higher output with the same labor hours, thus reducing labor costs. 3. Labor laws and regulations Labor laws and regulations also decide your labor cost, as you must abide by minimum wage and overtime regulations. Compliance with these labor laws and regulations results in additional costs for employers. Strategies to control labor cost We study labor costs to ensure that labor costs do not adversely affect our profit margins. We also want to offer appropriate compensation to workers to keep them engaged and motivated. Here are some strategies that organizations can implement for managing and controlling labor costs effectively. 1. Workforce planning and scheduling How can you expect to calculate labor costs correctly if you are not planning and scheduling your workforce? The process is necessary to ensure that the labor resources align with the production demands. Workforce planning and scheduling can help accurately forecast staffing needs based on historical data, seasonality, and business trends. It avoids overstaffing or understaffing, reducing unnecessary labor costs. 2. Time and attendance tracking A reliable time and attendance tracking system , such as Truein, can help accurately measure employee work hours. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition time and attendance system that offers robust s hift scheduling and leave management capabilities. Its GPS-enabled tracking option ensures there is no time theft . It easily integrates with payroll and HR software to calculate wages accurately and control overtime costs. Its real-time tracking and auto-scheduling features can also enable proactive adjustments to schedules and staffing as needed. 3. Performance management Companies should focus on performance management and productivity improvement initiatives. It will help optimize labor utilization. You should set clear performance goals, and managers and supervisors should provide regular feedback to workers so they can proactively improve their productivity and efficiency, reducing wasted time and increasing output. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Understanding labor cost is essential to make informed financial decisions regarding productivity and revenue optimization. Knowledge of labor cost components empowers you to calculate labor costs accurately. Consider the factors affecting your business’s labor cost and implement appropriate strategies to control costs. FAQs Can I calculate labor costs based on an employee's annual salary alone? No, labor cost is not based solely on an employee’s annual salary but includes various components such as bonuses, overtime pay, payroll taxes, and benefits. How can I reduce labor costs without compromising productivity? You can use workforce planning and scheduling to anticipate the supply and demand of the workforce, implement time and attendance tracking with reliable tools like Truein for accurate work hours calculations, and improve employee training and development. Are labor costs the same across all industries? Labor costs vary significantly across industries due to skill requirements, labor market dynamics, and industry-specific regulations. Should I include training costs in labor cost calculations? If the training costs directly impact the employees’ learning and development within their roles, they can be included in labor costs. If not, then it is a more general or unrelated cost. How often should I recalculate labor costs? The frequency of recalculating labor costs depends on the nature of your business needs. However, you should review and recalculate labor costs regularly, such as monthly, to ensure that labor costs remain accurate and up-to-date. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure May 28, 2024 Hiring a staff is a combined decision covering everything from their roles and responsibilities to the benefits offered. A decision that significantly impacts you as an employer is how you pay them – salary or hourly. The salary vs. hourly pay determines who you attract for the role and the long-term financial impact of hiring the staff for your business. In simplest terms, a salaried staff receives regular paychecks irrespective if they work long on busy days or less on some days. On the contrary, hourly wages are paid to workers according to their work hours. They may be eligible for overtime if they work beyond the 40-hour workweek. But the difference between salary and hourly pay systems is much more significant, which we’ll explain in this guide. We will explore the pros and cons of each to help you determine which is best for your business. Table of Contents Understanding salary and hourly pay Benefits of salary pay Disadvantages of salary pay Pros and cons of hourly pay Advantages of hourly pay Disadvantages of hourly pay Factors to consider when choosing pay structure 1. Position type 2. Work hours 3. Productivity measure How can Truein help? Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Can a salaried staff work fewer than 40 hours a week? 2.Do hourly workers get paid for holidays? 3. Are salary positions more prestigious than hourly positions? 4. Can an hourly staff become salaried? 5. Which pay structure offers better benefits? Understanding salary and hourly pay Apart from the security of steady paychecks, salaried staff have other benefits and earn more than hourly workers. You must provide benefits like bonuses and paid vacation time to a salaried worker. There is no such obligation for hourly staff, but some are eligible for overtime. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), an hourly staff can be classified as “exempt” or “non-exempt” depending on their eligibility to work overtime. Hourly workers eligible for overtime are non-exempt, while ineligible ones are exempt. FLSA regulations regarding minimum wage and overtime compensation protect the “non-exempt” hourly workers. They are entitled to 1.5 times the hourly pay per hour they work over the standard 40-hour workweek. The U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division has clear guidelines regarding which staff can be considered “exempt.” They must satisfy the following requirements: Earning at least $684 per week Working in an administrative, computer, executive, professional, or external sales position Have the authority to make significant decisions independently Ability to create and implement company policies Must be working in a management role Before you decide how you will pay the new staff, it’s essential to consider hourly vs. salary pros and cons. Understanding the different benefits of each compensation is essential to know if hourly or salary is better for your business. Let’s explore a few benefits and downsides of salary and hourly pay. Benefits of salary pay Full-time, salaried staff typically get additional perks like health care, 401(k), and paid vacation time. This allows you to attract better people for work. Salaried staff are expected to receive the set amount consistently every month or year. A steady payroll simplifies accounting, and there are fewer mistakes. Salaried workers can be given more responsibilities, and you won’t have to pay wages for extra work on busy days. Also, such staff have better career prospects than hourly staff as they have more long-term promotion opportunities. Disadvantages of salary pay You must pay the staff a set amount, even if their clock hours are less. This limits you from adjusting costs if your revenue fluctuates during slow seasons. It is legally required to pay at least $684 per week to salaried workers. It is higher than what you would generally pay an hourly worker for 40 hours at minimum wage Pros and cons of hourly pay In some cases, your business can benefit from hiring hourly staff. For instance, you can add extra workers to the workforce during the busy season by paying hourly without making any full-time commitments. Advantages of hourly pay You get the flexibility to adjust the cost of paying workers based on expected revenue by easily reducing the worker hours. Hourly workers are part-time workers who don’t need to be paid extra benefits, just overtime. Productivity can be easily measured for hourly workers by tracking their time on the job using attendance systems like Truein. Disadvantages of hourly pay Payroll management is challenging if the schedule varies. It will require hourly workers to get paid different amounts. Hourly pay is usually higher than salary pay. Also, the overtime wage is higher. Hiring senior staff on hourly pay is challenging as they seek more stability and benefits. Factors to consider when choosing pay structure Most organizations choose to hire a mix of salaried and hourly workers for optimum workforce cost and productivity. There are several factors to consider when deciding the compensation type for the staff, as discussed below. 1. Position type Salary pay is the proper compensation if you want a floor manager or supervisor with years of experience. Most senior workers seek a stable paycheck and additional benefits when applying for work. Therefore, for senior positions, it is recommended compensation type. 2. Work hours Hiring hourly workers can result in significant cost savings if your business has fluctuating schedules, with some periods requiring more work. Hourly workers are part-time workers who are not expected to receive insurance and 401(k) benefits. 3. Productivity measure Is hourly or salary better for your business depends on how you measure your workers  productivity. For instance, a worker’s presence at the site directly impacts output and revenue if you are in a service industry like construction or mining. Here, hourly pay is ideal. By contrast, if productivity depends on outcomes or deliverables rather than time spent at work, such as for project managers, staff seek full-time employment with steady paychecks and benefits. How can Truein help? Whether you offer a salary or hourly pay, you need a tool for efficient time and attendance tracking . Truein is a complete solution for managing time and attendance for your staff . With its inbuilt policy templates, you can easily follow federal guidelines for salaried and hourly workers if you have a mixed workforce. It is a contactless face recognition attendance system that can be deployed on workers’ phones for attendance clock in and position tracking. There’s much on offer, including multi-site deployment, payroll-ready reports, 70+ customizable policies, and more. Learn more about Truein’s full features here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Paying a worker with a salary vs. hourly pay is not just about money. While cost is a substantial factor, it’s also essential to consider the role requirements and how productivity correlates to time spent on the job before making the decision. The difference between salary and hourly compensation, as discussed, provides a clear view of the pros and cons of each compensation type. Depending on the factors critical for your business, make the final choice. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Can a salaried staff work fewer than 40 hours a week? Yes, a salaried staff can work fewer than 40 hours a week. Salaried workers are expected to fulfill their job responsibilities in most industries regardless of the number of hours worked. Hence, they can work less or more than 40 hours a week without pay change. 2.Do hourly workers get paid for holidays? In the U.S., paying hourly workers for holidays is not mandatory. It entirely depends on the employment contracts and company policies. 3. Are salary positions more prestigious than hourly positions? While prestige associated with a position is subjective, salaried positions tend to attract more senior workers. The higher-level roles and management positions mostly do have salary compensation. 4. Can an hourly staff become salaried? Several companies allow an hourly worker to transition to a salaried position. The transition usually occurs when an hourly worker performs excellently or takes on additional job responsibilities. 5. Which pay structure offers better benefits? Salary pay offers more comprehensive benefits like retirement contributions, healthcare coverage, and paid vacations. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					The Importance of Absence Management in the Workplace The Importance of Absence Management in the Workplace May 28, 2024 Unplanned absence is a common phenomenon with significant financial implications. According to The Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), US employers lose $225.8 billion annually in productivity losses due to absenteeism ; this is $1.685 per employee. Only a few businesses can bear such high productivity loss in the long term. For most employers, the solution lies with absence management. With time and attendance management tools like Truein, you can handle unplanned absences and protect the bottom line. In this guide, we discuss absence management, its importance and challenges, and best practices for it. Table of Contents What is absence management? Importance of absence management 1.Operational continuity 2. Productivity 3. Compliance with laws and regulations 4. Employee engagement Benefits of effective absence management 1. Improve productivity 2. Cost savings 3. Workforce planning 4. Improved health and well-being Critical components of absence management 1. Absence policies 2. Absence tracking and recording 3. Leave request 4. Notification 5. Absence analysis and reporting Organizational Challenges faced due to lack of absence management Suboptimal use of time and resources Legal compliance Time theft Strategies and best practices for successful absence management 1. Accurate time tracking 2. Deterring unplanned absences 3. Flexible schedule management 4. Incentivize good attendance How Truein can help you to manage absence Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions What are the common reasons for workforce absences? How can absence management benefit an organization? What are some strategies for successful absence management? What challenges do organizations face in absence management? What are the best practices for absence management? What is absence management? Absence management is a way to reduce absenteeism at work by effectively tracking and handling employee absences. It is part of workforce management and essential to ensure smooth operations and high productivity. While a simple process, effective absence management requires a systematic process of establishing policies, procedures, and tools to monitor and manage employee time off. Furthermore, it includes ensuring proper documentation and complying with legal requirements, and simultaneously implementing strategies for handling and tracking employee absences from work. In simplest terms, absence management makes it possible for employers to balance the workforce’s le gitimate needs for time off and operational efficiency. Importance of absence management Absence management is critical for any organization, regardless of industry and workforce type. Unplanned absence can wreak havoc on business productivity and cause revenue losses. Minimizing unplanned absences will help you improve workforce availability, boosting productivity and simplifying cost management. Apart from these tangible reasons, absence management also has some intangible significance. Unchecked absenteeism is a reason for stress and dissatisfaction among employees who have to pick up the extra work. High absenteeism indicates something is fundamentally wrong with your business; it can be too much stress, toxic culture, or insufficient training. Here are some of the reasons why absence management is essential. 1.Operational continuity With effective absence management, you can ensure enough workers are available for the scheduled shifts so business operations can continue smoothly. Absence tracking helps businesses anticipate staffing needs and redistribute workload to minimize disruptions and maintain productivity. 2. Productivity Without enough workers to take on the shifts, productivity is directly impacted. Absence management is how you can identify trends, address recurring absences, and take necessary steps to mitigate their effects on productivity. 3. Compliance with laws and regulations Another primary reason to focus on absence management is to ensure you comply with the local employment laws and regulations. The laws and regulations related to different types of leaves, such as statutory sick leave, family leave, or other mandated leaves, differ from state to state. Absence management makes it easier to adhere to legal obligations. This ensures that your business avoids potential legal issues and penalties. Here is a complete guide on sick leave policy for companies . 4. Employee engagement Absence management ensures fairness and consistency in how a company handles absences. It demonstrates your commitment to staff’ s well-being and work-life balance. By implementing clear policies, workers know the expectations and procedures for requesting and reporting absences. Transparent communication and support mechanisms make employees feel valued and foster a positive work environment, boosting employee satisfaction, engagement, and retention. Benefits of effective absence management Managing an organization is a multifaceted responsibility; absence management plays a vital role in the process. With effective attendance management, you can: 1. Improve productivity Organizations can easily minimize schedule disruptions and maintain high productivity by proactively managing absences. Proper absence management ensures that all shifts are covered, and there is even distribution of work between employees. This supports team performance and workflow. 2. Cost savings As mentioned, unplanned absences can be a significant revenue leak for a business. You can plug such revenue loss by accurately tracking and managing employee time off. It saves you from hiring temporary workers, paying overtime, and reducing productivity. 3. Workforce planning When you use attendance management systems like Truein for tracking absences, you get valuable data and insights related to workforce planning. These insights provide a close view of absence patterns and trends, indicating whether you need better policies or additional staff for better operational efficiency and workforce planning. 4. Improved health and well-being A positive work environment focuses on employee health and well-being, allowing them time off when needed. Absence management empowers managers to appropriately support workers’ physical and mental health requirements, reducing the risk of burnout. This adds to their work-life balance, and workers have high satisfaction and engagement at work. For all these benefits, you must focus on the critical components of absence management that we will discuss next. Critical components of absence management Depending on your industry and workforce structure, there can be myriad strategies for absence management, but most have these standard components: 1. Absence policies Every company must have a clear and comprehensive attendance policy that outlines everything related to leave management, including how to request time off, notice requirements, types of leaves allowed, etc. The guidelines are also mandatory to comply with the applicable employment laws and regulations related to absences and leaves. 2. Absence tracking and recording To effectively manage absenteeism , it is essential to track and record absences accurately. Attendance monitoring is another critical component that allows organizations to monitor absence trends and track leave balances for each employee. 3. Leave request There must be a standardized process for workers to request time off. Your workforce must know the process for submitting a leave application or how to use an absence management system (if in place). 4. Notification Your workers must be aware of the absence reporting procedures. It includes information about who to notify when to notify, and any required documentation when applying for a leave. 5. Absence analysis and reporting For effective absence management, data analysis, and reporting are essential. Managers can identify absenteeism trends, patterns, and potential issues by reviewing absence records. Organizational Challenges faced due to lack of absence management Suboptimal use of time and resources Using timesheets and Excel spreadsheets, are not ideal for absence tracking because they are time-consuming, error-prone due to human inaccuracy, and require frequent updates. Automated absence management tools can improve accuracy by reducing the risk of human error. This helps to ensure that the data is accurate and reliable. Legal compliance Varying local employment laws and regulations require compliance. Your absence policy should consider these compliance requirements. Time theft Time theft refers to the act of employees clocking in and out for work when they are not actually present or having someone else clock attendance for them . This can often leave workers who don’t indulge in time theft feeling frustrated, angry, and resentful. Time theft could also potentially result in decreased morale and productivity amongst impacted workers. An automated time and attendance system using modern biometrics such as face recognition helps to resolve these problems by making it more difficult for workers to falsify their time records. Strategies and best practices for successful absence management As for strategies and best practices for absence management, there is no limit to how you can create a positive and encouraging environment for workers. Here are a few methods to try: 1. Accurate time tracking Tracking and recording clockin is the only possible way to address absenteeism accurately. You must have solutions like Truein deployed to keep real-time track of time and attendance and use data for forecasting the team’s scheduling requirements and estimating performance. The absence management best practice here is only partially to focus on work planning but also on employees’ work-life balance. 2. Deterring unplanned absences Unplanned absences can severely impact the bottom line, so preventive measures must be implemented. There must be clear and concise information about the company’s stand on unplanned absences so workers are aware of the disciplinary actions they can face. The best practice at this step is to have a self-service absence management system that allows workers to notify supervisors and managers about absences. 3. Flexible schedule management You can benefit from flexible schedule management, providing workers with enough scope to manage their childcare responsibilities and medical appointments without time off. Effective shift planning is excellent for avoiding tardiness. 4. Incentivize good attendance Rewards are known to reinforce positive feedback. If you have disciplinary measures for tardiness in the attendance policy, you should also include incentives for good attendance. It will encourage workers to avoid unplanned absences. How Truein can help you to manage absence As a complete time and attendance management software, Truein can be a vital tool for absence management in any industry. You can ensure accurate attendance recording policy enforcement with its built-in customizable attendance policies and real-time GPS tracking . It automates leave management, allowing workers to notify their managers about leave. It also automates payroll with month-end calculations taking account of leaves. Learn more about Truein’s leave management capabilities here “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Absence management is essential for productivity, employee satisfaction, and revenue. For effective absence management, apart from deploying absence management systems for accurate time and attendance tracking, you must ensure that your staff understands the company’s attendance policies and how to notify managers about leaves. Frequently Asked Questions What are the common reasons for workforce absences? The most common reasons for unplanned absences include personal or family-related obligations, medical emergencies, childcare responsibilities, bereavement, and time off. How can absence management benefit an organization? Effective absence management saves costs lost to absenteeism, improves productivity, maintains operational continuity, ensures compliance with employment laws, promotes employee engagement and satisfaction, and ensures fair pay. What are some strategies for successful absence management? Clear and concise attendance policies, accurate absence tracking, open communication between management and workers, and ensuring employees’ work-life balance are great strategies for successful absence management. What challenges do organizations face in absence management? Unplanned absenteeism, absence abuse, ineffective enforcement of absence policies, inadequate staffing, and high operational demands are common challenges in absence management. What are the best practices for absence management? Establishing a comprehensive absence policy, clear and transparent communication about policies and procedures to employees, reliable absence tracking, work-life balance initiatives, and absence data analysis and review for proactive management for a few best practices you can utilize for absence management. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It How To Deal With Unauthorised Absence? Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Supplemental Wages vs. Regular Wages: Explained Supplemental Wages vs. Regular Wages: Explained May 24, 2024 As a business owner, you must be well aware of payroll. Wage is one of the most significant aspects of employment. Apart from the regular wages, workers also appreciate the opportunity to earn extra income as overtime or supplemental wages. However, for some business owners, supplemental pay is a complex topic. The issue of regular wages vs. supplemental wages can be easily sorted if you understand the definition of both pay types, the misconception about supplemental pay, and how taxation is applied to both salaries. That’s what we are going to cover in this blog. Table of Contents Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: The Definition Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: The Taxation 1. Aggregate Method: 2. Flat Rate Method: Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: Examples Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: Reporting requirements Importance of distinguishing between supplemental and regular wages Common misconceptions Supplemental wages are taxed higher than regular wages: Supplemental income is tax-free: Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Are supplemental wages taxed at a higher rate than regular wages? What are some examples of supplemental wages? Are regular wages and supplemental wages reported separately on tax forms? Do I need to report my supplemental wages on my tax return? How can employers ensure accurate tax withholding for supplemental wages? Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: The Definition Regular wages refer to the typical pay workers receive for regular work hours. It is paid to a worker for the standard employment activities and is calculated based on the base salary or hourly rate agreed upon between the worker and employer. The regular pay is subject to regular income tax withholding and other payroll deductions such as Social Security. Supplemental wages are additional payments a worker receives separate from regular wages, such as bonuses, overtime, commissions, severance, and vacation pay. These wages are not part of the workers regular salary or hourly rate and are often one-time or occasional. Furthermore, the supplemental wage is subject to different tax withholding rules. Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: The Taxation Regular wages are subject to federal and state income tax, Social Security tax, and Medicare tax. The federal income tax is calculated on workers regular wages based on their filing status and withholding allowances claimed on their Form W-4 . Also, the amount withheld is based on taxable income and the tax brackets applicable for the tax year. If you are in a state with a state income tax on regular wages, you will be subjected to specific rates and rules depending on your state. Some states have a flat tax rate for regular wages, while others use progressive tax structures like the federal income tax. Social Security tax is also called the Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI) tax which is a tax that funds Social Security benefits. The Social Security tax rate in 2023 is 6.2% on wages up to $160,200 annually. Medicare is another federal tax with a flat tax rate of 1.45% on all regular wages. There is no income threshold, and in addition to the workers contribution, the employers are also required to contribute 1.45% of the workers wages to Medicare. Supplemental wages are also subject to federal income tax withholding, but the rules differ from the regular wages tax. There are two methods to calculate supplemental income tax: 1. Aggregate Method: This method is used when an worker is paid regular and supplemental wages during the same payroll period. If a worker earns both wages, the employer can combine the amounts and withhold federal income tax based on the workers total taxable income for that period. The withholding tax rates will depend on the workers withholding status and the number of withholding allowances claimed. 2. Flat Rate Method: If the employers want, they can use a flat supplemental income tax rate to calculate federal income tax. Here, the default rate is 22% for supplemental wages up to $1 million. If the supplemental wages exceed $1 million, the excess amount is taxed at a flat rate of 37%. Employers need to consider the state income tax withholding on supplemental wages as states have rules, which may vary depending on the specific state regulations. Additionally, other local taxes or deductions can be made depending on the jurisdiction. Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: Examples Regular wages include your base salary, which is a fixed agreed-upon salary. It also consists of the hourly wages for contractual staff. Your annual salary is counted as regular wages irrespective of pay periods (e.g., monthly or bi-weekly). For hospitality workers like restaurant servers, the tipped wages are also included in the regular wages as they often work below minimum wage in the expectation that customer tips will make up the difference. Piecework wages are also regular wages, where workers are paid based on the number of units or pieces produced or completed. Allowances for reimbursements of expenses like commuting, uniforms, or job-related costs are also part of regular pay. Any additional pay apart from the regular wages form supplemental wages, including bonuses, overtime pay to commissions, and severance pay. Your vacation pay for unused vacation days or as part of paid time off (PTO) policies is also calculated as supplemental. Non-cash or cash rewards from the employer for exceptional performance or participation in competitions are supplemental wages. Any relocation allowances, such as reimbursements or relocation payments for work purposes, counted as additional income. Any nonqualified deferred compensation, such as payments made tostaff outside of qualified retirement plans or wages paid retroactively to staff for past work due to wage adjustments, corrections, or legal settlements, are also supplemental wages. The examples provided are incomplete, and many more supplemental and regular wages can vary depending on the industry, job roles, and jurisdictions. Regular wages vs. supplemental wages: Reporting requirements There are specific reporting requirements for regular and supplemental wages. For reporting regular wages, employers must provide workers with a Form W-2, Wage, and Tax Statement by January 31st of the following year. This form reports the staff’s wages, tips, other compensation, and taxes withheld throughout the year. The total regular wages are reported in Box 1 of Form W-2. Supplemental wages are also reported on Form W-2. However, they can be reported in either Box 1 (total wages) or Box 3 (Social Security wages) of Form W-2. If some supplemental wages are not reported in Form W-2, they can be reported on Form 1099-MISC as Miscellaneous Income . Importance of distinguishing between supplemental and regular wages Identifying and differentiating between regular and supplemental wages is essential for deciding the appropriate tax withholding methods and rates. As there are separate reporting requirements for regular wages and supplemental wages on tax forms, distinguishing between the two is necessary for accurate tax reporting. For employers, distinguishing between regular and supplemental wages helps to comply with employment laws such as overtime regulations. Finally, differentiating between regular and supplemental wages is essential for a company’s financial planning as it aids in budgeting. Common misconceptions Supplemental wages are taxed higher than regular wages: Supplemental wages are indeed subject to different tax withholding methods and rates, but compared to regular wages, they are not taxed at a higher overall rate. Supplemental income is tax-free: Workers must report any supplemental income to calculate their tax liability. Conclusion For employers, it is necessary to understand the difference between regular wages and supplemental wages. As both incomes have specific tax rules and regulations applicable in their jurisdiction, both employers and worker need to understand them to ensure proper tax reporting and compliance. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Frequently Asked Questions Are supplemental wages taxed at a higher rate than regular wages? Supplemental wages are subjected to different tax withholding methods but are generally taxed at the same rates as regular wages. Some withholding calculation methods for supplemental wages, like the flat rate method, may seem like supplemental pay attracts a higher tax rate. Still, it’s ultimately the actual tax liability that determines the rates. What are some examples of supplemental wages? Commissions, bonuses, vacation pay, overtime pay, severance pay, tips, awards and prizes, and relocation allowances are supplemental wages. Are regular wages and supplemental wages reported separately on tax forms? Yes, regular wages and supplemental wages are taxed differently. Regular wages are reported on Form W-2, Wage, and Tax Statement, while the supplemental wages are usually reported on a separate section of Form W-2 or Form 1099-MISC. Do I need to report my supplemental wages on my tax return? You must report both regular and supplemental wages on your tax return. The federal and state income tax is applied to all earnings from regular and supplemental wages, so it’s mandatory to report both to reflect the total income earned. How can employers ensure accurate tax withholding for supplemental wages? Worker s should understand the different tax withholding methods for supplemental wages to ensure accurate tax withholding for supplemental wages. Employers should update their payroll systems to calculate and withhold supplemental wages taxes accurately. Seek professional advice to ensure compliance with tax regulations and accurate tax withholding for supplemental wages. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs New Hampshire Overtime Laws: Explained Why Automatic Scheduling Is Better Than Regular Scheduling? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					The Art of Efficient Construction Planning and Scheduling The Art of Efficient Construction Planning and Scheduling May 28, 2024 For construction management, planning, and scheduling are critical. Given the large construction projects, we need construction planning and scheduling to ensure all phases are completed within budget and time. We mean workers, materials, machinery, and other activities like construction scheduling and planning when discussing construction activities. Proper construction planning and scheduling covers everything from choosing policies, processes, and procedures to creating project action plans into a functioning calendar. In this blog, we’ll look at these requirements, the importance of construction planning, the benefits of construction scheduling, and much more. Table of Contents Importance of construction planning 1. Cost management 2. Documentation 3. Transparency 4. Better control Benefits of effective construction scheduling 1. Better resource allocation 2. Enhanced project coordination 3. Timely project completion 4. Cost optimization Steps in Construction Planning and Scheduling 1. Scope definition 2. Work breakdown structure (WBS) 3. Task sequencing 4. Estimating resources and durations 5. Creating construction schedule 6. Monitoring Tools and software for construction planning and scheduling 1. Truein 2. Primavera P6 3. Microsoft Project 4. Deel 5. Autodesk Navisworks Challenges in Construction Planning and Scheduling 1. Complexity 2. Resource constraints 3. Communication 4. Weather and external factors 5. Risk management Strategies for efficient construction planning and scheduling 1. Collaborative approach 2. Effective communication 3. Risk management 4. Technology adoption Case studies: Successful construction planning and scheduling Future trends in construction planning and scheduling 1. Building Information Modeling (BIM) 2. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) 3. Modular construction 4. Mobile and cloud-based solutions Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions What is the role of construction planning in project management? How does effective construction scheduling benefit a project? What are some common challenges in construction planning and scheduling? What strategies can improve construction planning and scheduling efficiency? What are some future trends in construction planning and scheduling? Importance of construction planning Construction planning lays the foundation for project success. It’s a comprehensive process that includes everything from analyzing project requirements to resource planning to scheduling. It is a phase necessary to allocate resources effectively and streamline project activities. Proper planning of construction activities impacts all aspects of the project. Some of the reasons why construction project planning and scheduling are so important: 1. Cost management Construction planning helps manage costs related to construction activities. It helps reduce costs, accurately predict cash flow, and proactively make decisions to minimize expenditure and maximize efficiency. 2. Documentation Construction planning also creates an audit trail that documents the entire project, which can be easily shared with stakeholders so that everyone is aware of the requirements, progress, and completion timeline of the project. 3. Transparency It also improves clarity within teams as everyone, including workers, supervisors, managers, and project managers, is in the loop and proactively participates in communication. Construction planning also saves time by automating workflows using digital tools. 4. Better control Construction planning and scheduling makes all the tasks and projects centrally available to anyone who wants to view them. This gives better control over optimizing processes, allocating resources, managing workers’ time, and tracking their productivity. This is why the construction industry is so invested in planning and scheduling. If done right, planning and scheduling in construction management can provide several benefits. Benefits of effective construction scheduling Construction management scheduling is essential to ensure that projects follow the anticipated timeline, costs are within budget, and the workforce is managed appropriately. A well-planned construction schedule outlines the pace at which work will progress and how resources and workers will be allocated to the schedule. It is how you can easily define the project’s processes, methods, and sequences. Here are some core benefits of meticulous construction scheduling: 1. Better resource allocation Planned construction scheduling ensures that all the resources, including manpower, equipment, and materials, are available at the right site on time and in the right quantities. This significantly improves productivity by preventing delays and reducing wastage and optimizes resource utilization. 2. Enhanced project coordination One of the benefits of construction planning and scheduling is that there is open communication and coordination between various project stakeholders, such as contractors, subcontractors, workers, suppliers, and clients. This ensures no conflicts or miscommunications, which results in smooth project execution. 3. Timely project completion A well-planned construction schedule is an incredible tool to track project progress, identify bottlenecks, and take necessary corrective actions. When you can implement a plan, you can ensure that all the construction activities are completed on time, which enables timely project delivery and minimizes costs and penalties. 4. Cost optimization Another significant benefit of proper scheduling is minimizing idle time and resource shortages, reducing project duration. This brings cost benefits as you can eliminate unnecessary expenses, improve productivity, and avoid costly rework. You must understand the underlying construction planning and scheduling steps for all these benefits. Steps in Construction Planning and Scheduling 1. Scope definition It starts with clearly defining the project’s scope, which includes the objectives and deliverables. It also involves identifying client requirements, project constraints, resource requirements, and regulatory considerations. 2. Work breakdown structure (WBS) The next step involved is to break down the entire project into smaller, manageable tasks and create a hierarchical structure. This step is where you plan the resources, such as raw materials and manpower. WBS is essential to understand the project’s components and dependencies. 3. Task sequencing Large construction projects cannot be sequential altogether, as it will take longer to complete the assignments. This is why we identify tasks that can be performed simultaneously or in parallel in construction planning. We also identify sequential dependencies to ensure smooth operations. 4. Estimating resources and durations Once tasks are sequenced in a logical order, next, we estimate the resources such as labor, materials, and equipment required for each job and the estimated duration for task completion. Project managers use historical data, expert knowledge, and industry standards for accurate estimations at this step. 5. Creating construction schedule Based on the WBS, task sequencing, and resource estimates, project managers start construction schedules to outline each task’s start and end dates, resource allocations, and critical milestones. This adjustable schedule accounts for unforeseen changes in the tasks and timelines. 6. Monitoring With the execution of the plan, the final step is to monitor the project’s progress continuously. Managers compare the progress with the planned schedule and take corrective actions if deviations occur. Regular updates are made to the program to reflect any changes or adjustments. Tools and software for construction planning and scheduling Construction planning and scheduling become easier with the use of tools. Several software tools are available to assist with construction planning and scheduling aspects, such as Gantt charts, resource management, collaboration, time and attendance tracking, and document control. Here are some of the most commonly used tools: 1. Truein Truein is a complete time and attendance management tool for the construction industry . With its powerful face recognition technology, auto-scheduling features, and hardwareless design, Truein is the ultimate tool to keep construction workers and projects on time. Most construction projects are multi-site; this construction scheduling tool has options for automated time tracking based on location plus scheduling, reporting, and payroll integration. With the single app, you can manage construction schedules efficiently. 2. Primavera P6 Oracle’s Primavera P6 is the market leader in construction planning and scheduling. It is a powerful project management software widely used in construction and offers comprehensive scheduling, resource management, and reporting capabilities. This tool allows project managers to create detailed construction project schedules, track progress, manage resources, and analyze project performance. 3. Microsoft Project Microsoft Project is another popular project management tool used in the construction industry. It enables project managers to create schedules, manage tasks, allocate resources, and track progress. It offers collaboration tools for workers, supervisors, and managers to share feedback on task dependencies, resource leveling, and shift scheduling. One distinct feature of the tool is its integration with other Microsoft Office applications . 4. Deel Deel is the ultimate HR, payroll, and compliance platform for construction companies with a distributed workforce and global teams. Everything can be achieved with this cloud-based platform, from HR workflow integrations to monitoring and executing payroll in 100+ countries. You don’t have to worry about infringing the local labor laws; with Deel, you can efficiently handle planning and scheduling. It is great for hiring and managing a contract workforce for your construction business. 5. Autodesk Navisworks Autodesk Navisworks is a dedicated 3D project review software designed to help managers visualize and simulate construction projects. It allows users to combine models from various disciplines and perform clash detection, quantity takeoffs, and construction sequencing. Navisworks is a great tool for identifying scheduling conflicts, optimizing construction sequences, and enhancing coordination among project teams. Every tool has its set of features, scalability, and pricing variation. Truein is the most affordable construction planning and scheduling software application, with HR and payroll automation integration capabilities. Challenges in Construction Planning and Scheduling Challenges exist in construction planning and scheduling that need attention from the beginning. As such projects are large, these challenges can arise from several factors, including project complexity, resource limitations, and external influences. 1. Complexity Construction projects are inherently complex as there are so many variables and dependencies. Also, the multi-site mode of the projects makes it difficult to ensure everything is in line. Uncertainties related to weather conditions, regulatory approvals, and unforeseen site conditions can disrupt schedules. 2. Resource constraints Limited availability of skilled labor, equipment, and raw materials can pose serious challenges in construction scheduling. As a project manager, balancing the demands across multiple projects for resources is challenging. 3. Communication When the workers are distributed over a large area, there is a communication challenge to coordinate teams for successful planning and scheduling. Miscommunication can result in delays and conflicts among workers leading to disruptions and schedule delays. 4. Weather and external factors Every construction project is susceptible to weather conditions, which can significantly impact schedules. External factors like regulatory approvals and permitting processes can further delay the schedule. 5. Risk management Construction projects are exposed to risks ranging from labor shortages to site safety incidents. These events can impact schedules, so proactive risk identification, assessment, and mitigation are essential. Strategies for efficient construction planning and scheduling 1. Collaborative approach When you improve collaboration in construction planning & scheduling, you can create more accurate and feasible schedules. Always involve critical stakeholders in the planning and scheduling process, including project managers, contractors, and subcontractors. 2. Effective communication There must be clear lines of communication between workers, subcontractors, and contractors to ensure effective coordination and proactively avoid conflicts and scheduling issues. 3. Risk management Risk management is essential to identify potential risks and develop contingency plans to mitigate their impact on the construction schedule. It requires accurate monitoring and updating risk assessments throughout the project lifecycle. 4. Technology adoption Embrace construction planning and scheduling software and tools like Truein to automate scheduling, time tracking, and labor attendance and enhance collaboration among project teams. Case studies: Successful construction planning and scheduling KAD Constructions, a leading construction firm, faced challenges optimizing its construction planning and scheduling processes. Due to its manual scheduling and attendance methods, the company faced severe challenges managing distributed staff. This resulted in delays, inefficiencies, and increased costs. KAD Constructions adopted Truein, an innovative time and attendance software with robust scheduling capabilities to overcome these challenges. Truein streamlined their construction planning and scheduling processes and helped them with the following: Centralized real-time data insights from all sites Scheduling and leave management automation Policies and compliances to automate reports for payroll Alters for admins highlighting discrepancies and more. Learn more about how Truein helped KAD Constructions . Future trends in construction planning and scheduling As with any other industry, construction is also evolving and making the best of the future of planning and scheduling tools. Here are some expected future trends in the industry: 1. Building Information Modeling (BIM) BIM technology facilitates better visualization, clash detection, and improved collaboration by integrating 3D models, project data, and scheduling information. 2. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) AI and ML algorithms are at the core of any industry using software tools. Construction planning and scheduling can also benefit from tools like Truein that use AI and ML algorithms for optimizing schedules and automating repetitive scheduling tasks 3. Modular construction Companies are adopting off-site construction methods such as prefabrication and modular construction. This expedites project timelines and simplifies scheduling by reducing on-site labor requirements. 4. Mobile and cloud-based solutions Tools like Truein are cloud-based platforms that run on mobiles enabling real-time collaboration, instant updates, and access to project information from anywhere for all stakeholders. This improves communication and reduces delays. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Construction planning and scheduling are crucial for the success of construction projects. Proper planning is necessary to create a schedule that will allow for the appropriate utilization of resources and timely delivery of projects within budget. As planning and scheduling in construction management are time-consuming, you need tools like Truein for improved resource allocation, enhanced coordination, timely project completion, and cost optimization. By utilizing the right tools, you can proactively address the challenges and implement the right strategies for greater efficiency, productivity, and profitability. Frequently Asked Questions What is the role of construction planning in project management? Deciding project objectives, defining project scope, identifying risks, and allocating resources will be easier with construction planning. It is necessary to ensure project success. How does effective construction scheduling benefit a project? With effective construction scheduling, you can significantly optimize resource utilization, boost project coordination, ensure timely completion, and reduce overall project costs and duration. What are some common challenges in construction planning and scheduling? Internal and external uncertainties like weather, resource constraints, complex project dynamics, and tracking of distributed construction workforce are some significant challenges to consider. What strategies can improve construction planning and scheduling efficiency? Risk management, collaboration, communication, and technology adoption can improve construction planning and scheduling. What are some future trends in construction planning and scheduling? Adoption of BIM technology, AI and Machine Learning powered applications, prefabrication methods, and mobile/cloud-based solutions are enhancing construction planning and scheduling. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					How to Reduce Labor Costs – Maximizing Efficiency and Savings How to Reduce Labor Costs – Maximizing Efficiency and Savings August 11, 2024 Labor cost management is essential for any organization, irrespective of the industry and the number of workers. You can expect your profits to soar if you keep the labor costs low and revenue high. If you feel your company’s labor cost is out of control and need reduction, there are some practical ways to achieve this goal. This blog will explore how to reduce labor costs wherever possible without compromising productivity or employee satisfaction. Table of Contents 1. Analyzing current labor costs 2. Streamlining workforce planning 3. Implementing time and attendance systems 4.Enhancing workforce productivity 5. Automation and technology solutions 6. Outsourcing options 7. Employee training and skill development 8. Performance management and incentives 9. Balancing labor costs and quality 10. Ensuring compliance with labor laws 11. Evaluating the return on investment (ROI) Conclusion FAQs How long does it take to see the effects of labor cost reduction strategies? Can reducing labor costs lead to employee dissatisfaction? Are there any legal implications to consider when reducing labor costs? How can technology and automation help in reducing labor costs? What role does employee training play in reducing labor costs? 1. Analyzing current labor costs The ideal starting point is to look hard at your current labor costs. Suppose you are not including labor costs in your budgeting and financial planning. In that case, likely, you need to collect the essential data for thoroughly analyzing the current labor expenses. There are some critical costs, such as wage rates, benefits, overtime costs, and other labor-related expenditures, that you must examine closely. This will help you identify areas with scope for improvement and cost reduction. 2. Streamlining workforce planning Workforce planning is how you can ensure that you always have the correct number of workers available to cover shifts. Now, it is easier said than done. Workforce planning requires a degree of standardization to align the staffing levels with demand. You should use historical data to plan the workforce such that there are no overstaffing or understaffing situations which minimize unnecessary labor costs. When you can accurately anticipate the workforce requirement, you can decrease ambiguity and guesswork. This boosts productivity and increases employee morale since they don’t have to be anxious about shifts. 3. Implementing time and attendance systems You cannot improve it if you cannot measure it. How can you control labor costs if you don’t know how the workers spend their hours at a job or how many hours they are working? This is why you need to implement reliable time and attendance systems . It will help you eliminate time theft and buddy punching. Businesses lose about $50 billion every year due to time theft . Learn more about how you can prevent buddy punching . Truein is a solution that you can deploy out of the box to ensure accurate time and attendance tracking . It helps to reduce and manage costs by eliminating time theft and offering an automated way to keep track of work hours. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition time and attendance system with robust timekeeping and scheduling capabilities. Integrating your existing payroll system enables seamless dataflow, which facilitates the automation of the calculation of complex pay rules. As there is no human interference in work hours and leave calculations, there is no scope for human error when calculating overtime. Its built-in 70+ customizable policy templates ensure you comply with government regulations and can easily manage separate policies for the full-time and contractual workforce. “Slash Labor Costs by upto 70% with Our Tool” Fill the form to book a Free Demo Today! Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 4.Enhancing workforce productivity One key aspect of reducing labor costs is improving your workforce’s productivity. When tools and training programs are in place that encourage your workers to upgrade their skills, you foster a culture of efficiency and productivity. This enables optimized output and reduced labor requirements. Plan and implement solutions that allow your workplace to operate efficiently. For example, improving warehouse efficiency in a factory setting will allow workers to reduce their time completing their tasks. It will allow workers to reduce their time completing their tasks. When workers complete their duties faster, it lowers labor costs. It also implies that you can maintain the same productivity with fewer people. 5. Automation and technology solutions Leveraging automation and technology solutions can streamline processes at your organization. For instance, Truein can help reduce manual efforts in calculating work hours at the end of each shift or month. This enhances productivity as HR can use the saved time on more critical tasks that contribute directly to productivity and profitability. Tools like project management software, automated workflows, and AI-powered systems can help you introduce automation in the workflow, which will decrease the time it takes to complete labor-intensive tasks and drive cost savings. Automation is especially beneficial for reducing labor costs in manufacturing . 6. Outsourcing options If your business allows outsourcing some business operations, consider it a solution to control labor costs. By contracting or outsourcing the non-core functions, you can ease the cost of employing full-time workers and eliminate the associated expenses. By outsourcing some of the business operations, you can have significant labor cost savings as your payroll will be eased, and you are not obliged to retain the contractual workers when there is no requirement. 7. Employee training and skill development Most businesses wondering how to reduce labor costs often overlook the impact of investing in employee training and skill development. A well-trained workforce is not only highly productive, but it also reduces rework. This saves production costs and reduces labor costs. Improving employee competencies can increase efficiency, minimize errors, and eliminate the need for external resources. You can plan training and development programs to get workers up to speed quickly. A trained workforce always uses the best practices contributing to production and revenue. 8. Performance management and incentives Sometimes, to attract the best workers, some employers start offering high salaries, but it is often not a successful strategy in the long term. For most workers, money is not the only motivator, and they also seek performance betterment. This is why you should implement both effective performance management systems and provide incentives. It will keep workers satisfied both financially and intellectually. Furthermore, it is common knowledge that recognizing and rewarding high performers can boost productivity and engagement. All these steps can motivate workers to perform at their best, contributing to labor cost reduction efforts. 9. Balancing labor costs and quality One way to maintain low labor costs is to balance cost savings and the quality of products or services delivered. Cost-cutting measures are welcomed, but not when they overshadow the quality of deliverables. Negotiating variable pay with your workers is one way to maintain this balance. You can make a part of their pay variable and tie it to the overall productivity and revenue. This way, the more money the company makes, the more workers earn. 10. Ensuring compliance with labor laws You must maintain sight of the labor laws in your approach to reducing labor costs. Compliance with federal, state, and local labor laws and regulations is paramount for any business. You should know the legal implications of your labor cost reduction strategies. If you are on the wrong side of the law due to the methods you adopt for lowering labor costs, you can end up paying hefty penalties. Always be mindful of the legal requirements, such as minimum wage requirements, overtime regulations, and employee rights, to avoid legal repercussions. 11. Evaluating the return on investment (ROI) Now we have shared enough strategies with you to control labor costs. Still, it would help if you implemented any only solution after properly evaluating each strategy’s potential return on investment. The ultimate goal of implementing any cost reduction strategies is to keep the expenditure lower without compromising productivity and quality of service. Hence, businesses should assess the projected labor cost savings against the costs and timelines of implementing new systems or strategies. Conclusion Labor costs are essential for business operations but can be optimized to maximize profits. By analyzing current labor costs, you can understand how to streamline workforce planning and leverage technology and automation to reduce labor costs. Tools like Truein can be vital in lowering cost wasted due to overscheduling, overtime abuse, and time theft. The data provided by such tools can help businesses to make informed decisions to optimize labor costs while maintaining operational efficiency. FAQs How long does it take to see the effects of labor cost reduction strategies? No set timeline guarantees the outcome of the labor cost reduction strategies you will implement. The outcome duration will depend on factors such as the nature of the strategies, business size, and industry. While some strategies may yield immediate cost savings, others might take several months. Can reducing labor costs lead to employee dissatisfaction? When done right, reducing labor costs will not impact employee satisfaction. All your cost-saving initiatives must be based on open communication and transparency that ensures the involvement of workers in the process can help mitigate any negative impact. Are there any legal implications to consider when reducing labor costs? Yes, there can be legal implications when reducing labor costs. Businesses must consider requirements such as minimum wage, overtime regulations, and employee rights. How can technology and automation help in reducing labor costs? Technology and automation solutions like Truein can streamline processes, reduce manual efforts, and enhance productivity, reducing labor costs. What role does employee training play in reducing labor costs? Employee training enhances their competencies, increasing productivity and efficiency and reducing reliance on external resources. Well-trained workers can perform tasks more effectively, lowering labor costs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Aug 11, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Aug 11, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Aug 11, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Aug 11, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Aug 11, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs 10 Construction Productivity and Efficiency Strategies To Improve Labor Output Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs May 28, 2024 Employee scheduling is essential for any organization with 10 or 10,000 employees. For the smooth functioning of your business operations, you require effective employee scheduling to balance the needs of the business and the employees. This blog explores how you can use staff scheduling successfully to ensure optimal productivity and employee satisfaction. Table of Contents What is employee scheduling? Benefits of effective employee scheduling 1. Time and cost savings 2. Legal compliance 3. Consistency 4. Employee satisfaction Factors to consider when creating an employee schedule 1. Employee availability 2. Workload requirements 3. Employee skills 4. Equity 5. Communication Tools and technologies for efficient employee scheduling 1. Spreadsheets 2. Google Sheets 3. Truein Best practices for employee scheduling 1. Plan ahead 2. Consider employee preferences 3. Research federal and state laws 4. Regular schedule reviews 5. Use a schedule maker Overcoming challenges in employee scheduling 1. Employee availability 2. Shift changes 3. Changing demands Case Studies: Successful employee scheduling strategies Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Why is employee scheduling important? What are some best practices for employee scheduling? How can organizations overcome challenges in employee scheduling? What are some successful employee scheduling strategies in different industries? What is employee scheduling? Employee scheduling organizes, allocates, and optimizes employees’ work shifts and hours to ensure company goals are met on time without risk of burnout. However, there are more definitions of what is employee scheduling. It involves more than just a timetable to outline when and where workers should be working. In the context of modern work culture, employee scheduling is more complex, which includes considering employee availability, required skills, workload requirements, and legal regulations while also considering the work-life balance for the workforce. Employee scheduling can be divided into efficient work allocation, considering production goals, labor cost, compliance rules, and revenue goals. Depending on the size of your workforce and projects, you might need more than one work schedule to coordinate the workflow and production within the organization. There are several benefits of organizing activities for effective employee scheduling. Benefits of effective employee scheduling Staff scheduling has benefits beyond ensuring that all shifts are covered. Here are some ways your organization is benefited from effective employee scheduling 1. Time and cost savings With efficient workforce scheduling, you reduce the time spent adjusting the schedules and logistics. Managers have more time to focus on critical decision-making. It also prevents over-scheduling, which is a significant wasted wage expense. You don’t have to pay overtime when it can be avoided 2. Legal compliance A balanced employee schedule helps companies comply with the various legal requirements about salary vs. hourly employees. It ensures that every worker gets the appropriate workload and is not overworking. 3. Consistency When you have an effective employee schedule in place, it helps in forecasting the work requirements and availability of the workers. This facilitates employee management, and you can easily delegate schedules to managers. You will always be staffed. 4. Employee satisfaction Efficient employee scheduling is essential for boosting workers’ morale and increasing retention. When you can avoid last-minute schedule changes and better manage schedules according to the availability of the workers, you can prevent employee frustration. This is why you must create streamlined employee schedules that are easy to understand and follow. Here are the factors to consider for employee scheduling. Factors to consider when creating an employee schedule 1. Employee availability When you create a shift schedule, you have to consider the availability of the workers. For better work-life balance, consider the preferred working hours of each employee while creating the schedule. Factors like part-time or full-time status, personal responsibilities, time-off requests, and other scheduling constraints should be considered. 2. Workload requirements Every company has varied workload demands that fluctuate daily, weekly, or monthly. You must analyze the seasonal variations, historical data, and anticipated business trends to determine the number of employees needed at different times. 3. Employee skills Employee scheduling can only be effective if you put the workers with the right skills. When you match the skills with the requirements, you are optimizing productivity and employee satisfaction. 4. Equity You must ensure fairness and equity in staff scheduling by avoiding favoritism. Every worker should be given equal opportunities to work on desirable shifts. This is essential for creating a positive work environment and reducing employee dissatisfaction. 5. Communication The availability of open communication lines for employees to discuss scheduling decisions, changes, and updates is essential to build trust and allow employees better work-life balance. All these factors require tools to ensure you are not missing any critical requirements for employee scheduling. Tools and technologies for efficient employee scheduling Companies can leverage various tools and technologies to streamline employee scheduling. Here are some ideal tools for improving the efficiency of staff scheduling. 1. Spreadsheets Microsoft Excel spreadsheets are great for shift scheduling with fewer employees. It is an alternative to paper-based scheduling as it offers a degree of automation for forecasting and data analysis. 2. Google Sheets While not a dedicated employee scheduling tool, Google Sheets is a cloud-based alternative to Excel. It offers all the same functionalities of spreadsheets, but you can also share them with other team members enabling collaboration. If your organization has simple employee scheduling requirements, Google Sheets provide flexibility and customization options enough for such needs. 3. Truein Truein is a powerful time and attendance solution that offers a wide range of features and capabilities. It is designed to help businesses of all sizes and track employee time and attendance accurately and efficiently. This hardwareless, AI-powered platform offers full-scale scheduling capabilities, including shift management , employee self-service, and leave management. With its user-friendly interface to create, manage, and modify shifts, managers can quickly create schedules. It also provides real-time visibility into employee availability that prevents any mismanagement. Furthermore, employees can access the scheduling system through their mobile app to view their assigned shifts, request time off, and update their availability preferences. Truein seamlessly integrates with payroll and HR systems enabling data flow for reduced manual efforts and minimized errors. Also, with its robust reporting capabilities, you can monitor employee availability, workload requirements, and any season uptick in work hours. While these tools will help with employee scheduling, there are certain best practices that all managers must be aware of. Best practices for employee scheduling 1. Plan ahead Last-minute scheduling may seem convenient, but it can lead to employee dissatisfaction and decreased productivity. When you plan ahead, you give employees plenty of time to make arrangements for their personal commitments. 2. Consider employee preferences Managers should be open to accommodating employee preferences for shifts for improved employee satisfaction and reduced absenteeism whenever possible. 3. Research federal and state laws You must recognize the legal requirements surrounding staff scheduling, which can result in expensive fines. Always follow federal and state laws regarding employment to ensure compliance. 4. Regular schedule reviews One way to improve employee schedules’ effectiveness is to monitor and review the schedules continuously. Feedback from employees can also help address any recurring issues or concerns. 5. Use a schedule maker Automating the process of employee scheduling with tools like Truein is essential for effectiveness. Employees should be able to view schedules easily; request time offs, and trade shifts if required using the tool. Overcoming challenges in employee scheduling 1. Employee availability Managing multiple employee availability can be challenging when working with a large workforce. There will be numerous requests for availability preferences and changes at any point. An easy way to overcome this challenge is to use software tools that offer self-service options to employees for requesting time off, or updating their availability preferences. 2. Shift changes Shift changes are inevitable in employee scheduling, but handling unexpected absences and emergencies can be challenging without prior planning. There should be a system for employees to request shift changes that simplifies the process. 3. Changing demands Every company must be agile to adapt employee schedules to changing demand requirements. With real-time visibility of workforce data and leveraging scheduling tools, you can deploy quick adjustments to respond to fluctuations efficiently. Case Studies: Successful employee scheduling strategies Implementing scheduling tools can help centralize distributed workforce, like in the construction industry. For instance, Truein helped SJ Contracts improve their workforce scheduling, payroll, and compliance . The face recognition-based system replaced their manual card-based system allowing employees to self-service scheduling requests, leaves, and availability. Also, supply chain and logistic companies can benefit from successful staff scheduling like H S Supply Chain Services benefited from Truein. The scheduling tool helped H S Supply Chain Services to leverage real-time data to quickly check the number of staff, both site-wise and category-wise, contractor-level limit feature to control team sourcing from a contract agency, and auto-shift feature helped assign shifts automatically. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Employee scheduling is essential for organizational success. With a modern workforce, for effective scheduling, you need to consider the preferences and availability of employees and create schedules that optimize productivity, employee satisfaction, and cost-effectiveness. By leveraging modern tools such as Truein, organizations can create, manage, and optimize schedules effortlessly. Truein simplifies the process of employee scheduling, leading to improved productivity and employee satisfaction. Frequently Asked Questions Why is employee scheduling important? Employee scheduling is essential for offering work-life balance to workers, optimizing productivity, complying with labor laws, and promoting employee satisfaction. Employee scheduling software like Truein uses AI technology to automate and streamline the scheduling process. This saves numerous managerial hours, reduces human errors, facilitates employee self-service, and optimizes staffing levels. What are some best practices for employee scheduling? Planning, cross-training employees, considering availability preferences, and monitoring and adjusting schedules based on employee feedback are some best practices. How can organizations overcome challenges in employee scheduling? To overcome scheduling challenges, organizations must utilize tools like Truein to facilitate shift management, shift swaps, and leveraging real-time data for forecasting What are some successful employee scheduling strategies in different industries? While the most successful strategies vary by industry, some approaches can be data analysis to forecast demand changes, leveraging flexible scheduling options, and implementing scheduling tools that enable effective communication between management and employees. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How to Reduce Labor Costs - Maximizing Efficiency and Savings How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Effective Attendance Management: Utilizing Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers Effective Attendance Management: Utilizing Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers May 28, 2024 Effective attendance management is crucial for contract workers to ensure productivity, streamline operations, and achieve project success. One of the key components of efficient attendance management is utilizing time-tracking tools. Contract workers time tracking provides accurate and transparent insights into contractual employees’ work hours, enabling better resource allocation, project scheduling, and accountability. Table of Contents Benefits of Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers 1. Accurate Recording of Work Hours 2. Streamlined Project Scheduling and Resource Allocation 3. Transparent and Accountable Attendance Management 4. Improved Productivity and Time Management 5. Data-Driven Insights and Analytics 6. Compliance and Legal Protection Key Features of Effective Time-Tracking Tools 1. Automated Time Capture and Logging 2. Real-Time Tracking and Reporting 3. Integration with Project Management Systems 4. Task and Project Tracking 5. Customizable Reporting and Analytics 6. Mobile Accessibility 7. Notifications and Reminders 8. User-Friendly Interface Best Practices for Effective Attendance Management Improve Contract Workers’ Attendance Management with Top-Notch Time Tracking Tools Benefits of Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers Time-tracking tools offer numerous benefits for contract workers, revolutionizing how attendance management is handled. According to Data Bridge Market Research , in the forecast period from 2021 to 2028, the global market for time-tracking software is projected to achieve an estimated value of $31.88 billion, with a CAGR of 20.40%. The increasing demand among enterprises to enhance employee productivity is a key driving force behind this market growth. Here are the key advantages of utilizing the crew timesheet app: 1. Accurate Recording of Work Hours According to a time tracking survey conducted by Forbes , it has been found that approximately 50% of employees believe that about 25% of their work time is wasted. Time tracking tools eliminate the need for manual time entry and paper-based attendance systems, which are prone to errors and inaccuracies. These tools precisely track and record contractual staff’s work hours, ensuring accurate payroll processing, billing, and client invoicing. Automated time capture allows contract workers to focus on their work while the tool accurately logs their hours. 2. Streamlined Project Scheduling and Resource Allocation Effective time-tracking software for construction offers insights into contract workers’ availability and workload. Project managers can use this information to schedule tasks, allocate resources, and manage projects more efficiently. By understanding contractor workers’ real-time availability, managers can assign tasks based on their workload, skillset, and availability, optimizing project workflows and reducing bottlenecks. This improves resource utilization, productivity, and better project outcomes. 3. Transparent and Accountable Attendance Management Time tracking tools provide transparency in attendance management by offering real-time data on when contractual employees start and end their work. This transparency holds contractors accountable for their attendance, fosters a culture of punctuality and reliability, and helps build trust with clients and project managers. Contract workers can quickly provide evidence of their work hours, reducing disputes and conflicts. 4. Improved Productivity and Time Management Time tracking tools can help improve employee attendance and boost their productivity by managing their time more effectively. By visualizing how they spend their work hours, contractual staff can identify time-wasting activities, streamline their workflows, and focus on high-priority tasks. They can analyze their productivity patterns, identify areas for improvement, and make informed decisions to enhance their efficiency. These tools also enable workers to track their progress against deadlines and project milestones, ensuring the timely completion of tasks. 5. Data-Driven Insights and Analytics Time-tracking tools generate comprehensive reports and analytics on attendance patterns, project timelines, and resource utilization. By analyzing this data, contractor workers and project managers can gain valuable insights into productivity trends, identify areas for improvement, and make data-driven decisions. These insights enable proactive adjustments in project planning, resource allocation, and workforce management, leading to optimized project outcomes and increased profitability. 6. Compliance and Legal Protection Accurate time tracking and attendance records help contracts comply with labor laws and regulations. By utilizing time-tracking tools, contractors can demonstrate compliance with contractual obligations, labor regulations, and legal requirements related to overtime, breaks, and other labor policies. This protects contractors and clients from legal disputes and ensures fair and transparent business practices. Key Features of Effective Time-Tracking Tools Effective time-tracking tools offer a range of key features that contribute to accurate attendance management and streamlined operations. 1. Automated Time Capture and Logging The contractor time tracking spreadsheet automates capturing and logging work hours. They eliminate the need for manual entry, reducing human errors and saving time. These tools often offer various methods for time capture, such as mobile apps, web-based interfaces, or integration with other software systems. Automated time capture ensures accurate and real-time recording of contractor staff’s work hours. 2. Real-Time Tracking and Reporting Time tracking tools provide real-time tracking of contractor staff’s attendance and work progress. They offer instant visibility into who is working on what tasks, allowing project managers to monitor project timelines and make informed decisions. Real-time reporting features enable stakeholders to access up-to-date attendance data, analyze productivity trends, and track project milestones effectively. 3. Integration with Project Management Systems Effective time-tracking tools seamlessly integrate with project management systems, creating a centralized platform for collaboration and communication. Contractor staffs can log their hours directly within the project management software, eliminating the need for manual synchronization or data transfer. Integration allows efficient resource allocation, streamlined workflows, and improved project coordination. The accounting software is another essential software that the attendance management tool can be integrated. The advent of online accounting software for contractor employees has brought about a notable transformation in the industry, primarily by automating numerous mundane and time-consuming tasks. Previously, data entry was laborious, such as time in and out of contractors. But now advanced accounting software features such as optical character recognition (OCR) and bank feeds significantly streamline the procedure. 4. Task and Project Tracking Time-tracking apps for contractors often include features that enable contractual staff to associate their work hours with specific tasks or projects. This allows for detailed tracking of time spent on individual tasks, providing valuable insights into productivity and project progress. Workers can allocate their time to different projects or tasks, making it easier for project managers to evaluate resource allocation and project profitability. 5. Customizable Reporting and Analytics Effective time-tracking tools offer customizable reporting and analytics capabilities. Contract workers and project managers can generate detailed reports on attendance, project timelines, resource utilization, and other relevant metrics. These reports provide actionable insights for process improvement, resource optimization, and project planning. Customizable analytics empower contract workers to make data-driven decisions and identify areas for productivity enhancement. 6. Mobile Accessibility Many time-tracking tools provide mobile accessibility through dedicated mobile apps or responsive web interfaces. This allows contractual staff to track their attendance, log work hours, and access project information. Mobile accessibility enhances convenience and flexibility, especially for contractual employees who work remotely or are frequently on-site. 7. Notifications and Reminders Time tracking tools often include notification and reminder feature to ensure contract workers stay on top of their attendance management. Contract workers can receive reminders for logging their hours, approaching deadlines, or other important events. These notifications help maintain punctuality, adherence to attendance policies, and overall project efficiency. 8. User-Friendly Interface Effective time-tracking tools prioritize user experience by offering intuitive and user-friendly interfaces. Contract workers can easily navigate the tool, log their hours, and access relevant information without technical difficulties. A user-friendly interface increases adoption and minimizes the learning curve, ensuring contract workers can quickly utilize the tool effectively. Best Practices for Effective Attendance Management Effective attendance management is crucial for any organization, as it directly impacts productivity, efficiency, and overall success. To ensure optimal attendance management, several best practices should be implemented. Firstly, clear attendance policies and expectations must be established and communicated to all employees. This includes outlining procedures for requesting time off, reporting absences, and addressing tardiness. Secondly, leveraging technology can streamline the attendance tracking process. Utilizing automated systems for timekeeping and attendance tracking reduces manual errors and allows for accurate and efficient record-keeping. Additionally, regular monitoring and analysis of attendance data can help identify patterns, trends, and potential issues, enabling proactive interventions. Finally, fostering a positive and supportive work environment encourages employees to prioritize attendance and promotes a culture of accountability and reliability. By implementing these best practices, organizations can effectively manage attendance and create a productive and engaged workforce. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Improve Contract Workers’ Attendance Management with Top-Notch Time Tracking Tools The best time-tracker software is vital to contractual staff’s success, and time-tracking tools play a pivotal role in achieving this efficiency. By utilizing these tools, contract workers can ensure accurate recording of work hours, transparent attendance management, and streamlined project scheduling. Implementing time-tracking tools requires careful selection, proper training, and fostering compliance. By following best practices, overcoming challenges, and analyzing attendance data, contract workers can enhance productivity and project success. Embrace these tools and witness the positive impact on your contracting business. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers 7 Workforce Management Tools to Boost Efficiency in 2024 Streamlining Construction Workforce Management: Tools and Strategies for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity October 25, 2024 Enhancing employee management effectiveness becomes pivotal for any organization aspiring to attain optimal productivity and triumph. When employees experience comprehensive support, unwavering motivation, and genuine engagement, they are naturally inclined to put in their utmost efforts. And this in turn can propel productivity. This article explains some proven strategies that managers can quickly employ to boost the productivity of their workforce. Let’s dive in to explore! Table of Contents 1. Establishing Clear Expectations and Objectives 2. Cultivating Effective Communication Channels 3. Facilitating Access to Resourceful Tools 4. Offering Empowering Training and Development Opportunities 5. Acknowledging and Rewarding Achievement 6. Nurturing Work-Life Equilibrium 7. Promoting Collaborative Team Dynamics 8. Streamlining Efficiency Through Task Automation Wrapping It Up 1. Establishing Clear Expectations and Objectives The basis of a productive workforce lies in drafting clear expectations and goals for employees. Precisely outlining their roles, responsibilities, and performance metrics galvanizes focused dedication towards tasks, resulting in efficient work geared towards achieving the desired outcomes. 2. Cultivating Effective Communication Channels Open and effective communication stands as the strong pillar of successful employee management. Encouraging a culture of transparency and approachability within the work culture empowers employees. Regular team meetings, personalized one-on-one sessions, and feedback loops substantiate the imperative of unified understanding, ensuring that pertinent issues are promptly addressed. 3. Facilitating Access to Resourceful Tools Providing employees with essential resources and advanced tools boosts their job performance significantly. This includes giving them access to state-of-the-art software, modern equipment, and other important necessities. A well-equipped team can complete tasks quickly and achieve excellent results. Moreover, you can take the help of unattended remote access to manage various things in the remote working environment. For instance, you can manage your unattended remote desktops, concurrent remote sessions, additional accounts, multi-user management, etc. 4. Offering Empowering Training and Development Opportunities Investing in employees’ professional growth not only augments their skill set but also engenders heightened morale and loyalty. Providing access to enriching training sessions, workshops, and mentorship programs fortifies their prowess while keeping them abreast of industry trends. A properly trained workforce is more inclined to proffer innovative solutions, consequentially encouraging better productivity. 5. Acknowledging and Rewarding Achievement Adopting an attitude that sees and rewards workers for doing good work is a strong way to get them to work harder. Workers will feel important and respected by making a full employee recognition program with monetary rewards, public praise, and other ways to say thanks. And this will make them feel better and make them want to keep doing their best. 6. Nurturing Work-Life Equilibrium Employees who enjoy a harmonious work-life balance exhibit heightened engagement, unwavering focus, and commendable productivity. Encouraging periodic breaks, vacations, and flexible working arrangements communicates a genuine commitment to their well-being. A supportive work environment that cherishes personal time promotes loyalty and eliminates burnout, ultimately resulting in amplified productivity levels. 7. Promoting Collaborative Team Dynamics Cultivating a culture that advocates collaboration and teamwork throughout the organization. Encouraging cross-functional projects and arranging team-building activities unites employees in a shared endeavor. Such collaborative efforts provide an amalgamation of diverse perspectives, fueling superior problem-solving capabilities and consequently increasing productivity. 8. Streamlining Efficiency Through Task Automation Integrating task automation, such as time and attendance tracking, shift rostering, and payroll generation, optimizes efficiency. Repetitive tasks are simplified, reducing errors and saving valuable time. Managers can focus on strategic decision-making while fostering transparency and engagement. Embracing automation empowers employees, leading to better overall productivity. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Wrapping It Up To get people to work harder, you need a well-thought-out method that covers everything. Managers can keep their workers inspired by setting clear goals and making the workplace a pleasant place to be. Investing in employee growth, giving them the tools they need, and implementing strong strategies can lead to long-term success and efficiency at all levels of a company. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies Enhance Manpower Productivity and Efficiency: Discover 9 Effective Strategies Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					What Is Double Time Pay & A Half, When Is It Mandatory & How To Calculate It? What Is Double Time Pay & A Half, When Is It Mandatory & How To Calculate It? March 31, 2024 Payroll is a challenging subject for any business. Paying employees is much more intricate than cutting a check at the end of each month. As an employer, you must know the concept of double-time pay. However, it’s optional for employers; employees must also understand double-time pay. Simply put, double pay refers to employees’ overtime compensation for hours worked beyond their regular hours. It is typically paid for the hours worked over the 40 hours in a workweek. The double pay wage is twice the regular hourly wage. Hence the term ‘double time pay.’ For employers, it is essential to pay employees double-time pay for extra hours, as is required by law. Failing to comply with labor law can attract penalties. Employees need to know about double time and a half to ensure there are receiving fair compensation for overtime work. Let’s understand when double-time pay comes into play and how to calculate it. Table of Contents What is double time and a half? When is double-time pay rate comes into play? 1. When an employee works more than regular hours 2. When an employee works on public holidays or continuous days How to calculate a double-time pay rate? Step 1. Learn when double-time pay kicks in Step 2. Calculate regular pay Step 3. Calculate double pay Step 4. Calculate Total Pay How To Create an Effective Double-Time Pay Policy for Your Organization? How can Truein support setting a double-time policy? FAQs 1. What's the difference between overtime and double time? 2. When do employees become eligible for double-time pay? 3. What factors to consider when setting up a double-time policy? What is double time and a half? Double time and a half is the pay rate, two and a half times the regular hourly rate. It is higher than the typical double-time pay rate paid as overtime. While the labor laws entitle workers to receive double-time pay rate for every hour beyond the scheduled hours, usually more than 12 hours in a workday or 40 hours in a workweek, some companies offer double time and a half for a competitive edge. When is double-time pay rate comes into play? Double-time pay is adequate when employees work beyond their scheduled hours or on designated holidays. Based on company policies and local labor laws, there can be other specific circumstances when double-time pay rates apply. Here are the two typical scenarios when double-time pay rate applies: 1. When an employee works more than regular hours A primary instance when employees get double-time pay is when they work certain hours in a workday or work week. For example, a typical workweek is of 40 hours or 12 hours a day; if a worker exceeds this predetermined threshold of hours, they might be eligible for double-time pay for the additional hours worked. 2. When an employee works on public holidays or continuous days Double-time or double-time and a-half pay will also be applied when employees work on designated public holidays or continuously for a specific number of days, such as seven consecutive days. Many organizations offer double-time and half holidays to incentivize employees to work during holidays. However, these conditions can be different depending on an organization handles the double-time pay based on factors such as labor laws, employment contracts, collective bargaining agreements, and company policies. It would help if you clearly defined the double time and a half pay rules and the circumstances under which employees are entitled to such pay to avoid misunderstandings. How to calculate a double-time pay rate? Double-time pay rate calculation is straightforward and requires three key steps. We will detail each of these steps below so you easily calculate overtime, such as double time and a half. Alternatively, you can use a double time and a-half calculator like this for the calculations. Step 1. Learn when double-time pay kicks in It would help if you determined when the double or double time and a-half pay will kick in based on your company policies, local labor laws, and state regulations. These specifications must be highlighted in company policies detailing how many hours in a day or week or on which designated holidays the double pay rate applies. Employees must know when they are eligible to receive double-time wages. Step 2. Calculate regular pay First, the hourly pay must be calculated. As your employees will have a fixed hourly rate, it will be easy to calculate the hourly pay for each employee. Calculating regular pay before ensures no mistake in calculating the hours eligible for double-time pay. You might need accurate attendance and time tracking software like Truein to automate double time and a half calculation. Here’s a formula to use for regular pay calculations: Regular Pay = Regular Pay Rate x Regular Hours Step 3. Calculate double pay Now you know when the double-time pay applies and how many hours are eligible; you can calculate double-time pay using a double time and a half calculator. Here’s the formula to use: Double time pay = (Regular Pay Rate x 2) x Any Time That Exceeds Regular Hours And if you are calculating double time and a half pay, then you will use this formula: Double Time Pay = (Regular Pay Rate x 2.5) x Any Time That Exceeds Regular Hours Step 4. Calculate Total Pay To calculate the total pay, you add regular and double-time pay. Total Pay = Regular Pay + Double Time Pay “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How To Create an Effective Double-Time Pay Policy for Your Organization? You can create a comprehensive double-time pay compensation policy for employees to maintain transparency and avoid misunderstandings. It’s not mandatory, but it helps keep things simpler around double time and a half pay and calculations. The first step is to ensure that your double-time pay policy complies with the FLSA’s overtime pay rules . Second, in which situations are you willing to offer employees double-time pay? Will they get double time and a half pay for working on holidays? Will they get double-time pay for irregular or undesired shifts? Will it be a simple policy similar to California overtime laws which entitle employees to double-time pay after a certain number of hours worked in a day? Create an employee handbook explaining the overtime policies clearly to employees. How can Truein support setting a double-time policy? Truein is a comprehensive solution for efficiently managing your organization’s double-time pay policy and attendance. It’s a complete attendance and time tracking solution with AI-enabled technology that accurately tracks employee check-ins and check-outs. This creates a reliable foundation for calculating hours worked, which is essential for determining double-time pay eligibility. Truein has real-time monitoring so managers can instantly track employee attendance and hours worked. It instantly alerts supervisors and managers when employees exceed regular hours, triggering double-time pay. You can customize attendance rules per your organization’s policies to define double-time pay eligibility, such as working on holidays, exceeding daily or weekly hour limits, or continuous work periods as per your requirements. You can learn more about Truein’s advanced attendance management capabilities that you can leverage for streamlining the process of setting up and enforcing double-time pay policy here . FAQs 1. What's the difference between overtime and double time? While both overtime and double time are types of premium pay rates, their terms and the circumstances under which they are applied differ. Overtime pay is paid to employees who work more than a certain number of hours in a specified workweek. The overtime rate is typically 1.5 times the regular hourly wage. Double-time pay is a higher hourly wage paid to employees for working under specific conditions, such as working on designated holidays, exceeding a certain threshold of hours, working continuously for a week, etc. The double time rate, as evident, is twice the employee’s regular hourly wage. 2. When do employees become eligible for double-time pay? Employees become eligible for double time pay usually when they: Work on designated holidays. Exceed a specified number of hours worked in a day or week. Continuously work for a defined period, such as seven consecutive days. Meet specific conditions outlined in company policies or labor agreements. 3. What factors to consider when setting up a double-time policy? When creating a double-time policy, consider fairness, compliance, and alignment with organizational goals carefully. Research legal requirements, clearly define eligibility criteria, determine how the double time pay rate will be calculated, establish procedures for employees to accurately document their hours worked, and consider utilizing attendance management systems like Truein to track hours worked, automate calculations, and ensure compliance. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It May 28, 2024 Timesheets are used across industries to keep track of employee productivity and provide data that can be used for planning and forecasting whether you want to track billable hours or analyze overtime, your need to record employee hours. Timesheets are the traditional tools for recording time employees spend on specific tasks compared to the amount allocated. For years, across industries, timesheets have been managed manually, but today, timesheet automation is the only sustainable way to manage worker productivity. Timesheet automation is digitalizing manual timesheet keeping using software and other digital applications. Time tracking automation has made recording and maintaining records of individual employees simple, efficient, and more accurate. This article explores how timesheet automation boosts productivity, simplifies the time-tracking process, and why your business must use it. Table of Contents Why old manual time-tracking systems doesn't work anymore? 1. Difficulty tracking employee overtime 2. Data entry errors 3. Slow processing times Why should organizations use Timesheet automation? 1. Lower costs 2. Adherence to business guidelines 3. Ensures effective communication 4. Automated processes & less human interventions 5. Reduces administration burden 6. Boosts employee productivity How can Truein help you with timesheet automation? Conclusion FAQs 1. What is the purpose of automated timesheets? 2. Why is a timesheet important in any organization? 3. What are the benefits of automated timesheets? Why old manual time-tracking systems doesn't work anymore? Organizations still relying on manual time tracking solutions miss out on efficiency and risk  their business to many challenges. 1. Difficulty tracking employee overtime Manual timesheets need a way to bring all the data together. Whether you use punch clocks or paper sheets, managers have to check over each timesheet manually to record data. It’s tedious and wastes managerial hours, which can be otherwise invested in more important decisions. Manual timesheets also make it challenging to identify patterns of absence and overtime. 2. Data entry errors You can expect human errors when you rely on workers to enter their checking times. Also, it makes your business vulnerable due to time theft. Some employees can be willing to enter incorrect information and get paid for the hours they have not worked. Also, payroll officers can need to be more efficient after a few numbers of data collection. 3. Slow processing times One of the primary reasons why timesheet automation is mandatory is because manual data entering and processing is monotonous and inefficient. Also, tracking data manually is incredibly slow, which can delay management decision-making, ultimately impacting revenue and workforce management. These are the main reasons your business needs automated time tracking to make smarter, informed workforce decisions faster. Let’s find out why the most successful organizations invest heavily in timesheet automation and its benefits. Why should organizations use Timesheet automation? 1. Lower costs Implementing timesheet automation can lead to cost savings in several ways. First, by eliminating manual data entry and paper-based processes, timesheet automation makes workforce management faster. It replaces manual methods, which can be time-consuming and error-prone. Automated systems like Truein can accurately calculate hours worked, overtime, and various pay rates. This significantly reduces payroll inaccuracies like overpayment or underpayment. It also streamlines administrative tasks, allowing organizations to use resources more efficiently, allowing organizations to use resources more efficiently. 2. Adherence to business guidelines For organizations, compliance is a requirement that can be challenging. With so many protocols, regulations, local laws, etc., to adhere to, timesheet automation can ensure all business guidelines related to labor laws and company policies are followed. Automated time tracking solutions like Truein offer the flexibility for customization for specific rules for overtime, break times, and other labor regulations that your business might have. Automated software is cohesive, can prevent unauthorized overtime, ensures consistent adherence to guidelines, and reduces the risk of non-compliance. 3. Ensures effective communication Automated timesheet systems create a centralized platform for employees, managers, and HR teams to communicate and collaborate on time-related matters. Employees can easily submit their hours worked, vacation requests, and other time-off details digitally in real-time. Managers can immediately review and approve timesheets remotely. This facilitates a smoother flow of information between teams and significantly reduces processing time. 4. Automated processes & less human interventions Timesheet automation almost eliminates the chances of errors arising from manual intervention. There is minimal manual data recording as employees clock in and out electronically, reducing the risk of double-entry errors. Automated systems can accurately calculate hours, rates, and deductions, eliminating the need for manual calculations. Accurate payroll processing means you no longer worry about disputes over hours worked and wages earned. 5. Reduces administration burden Companies still using manual timesheets have significant administrative overhead, and managers spend much time on data entry, verification, and reconciliations. Timesheet automation entirely streamlines these processes, freeing HR and administrative staff to focus on strategic tasks rather than repetitive data entry. The reduced administration burden boosts operational efficiency, widening the scope for further business growth. 6. Boosts employee productivity Time-tracking automation solutions like Truein provide self-service capabilities that empower employees. Your staff can easily submit their hours and time-off requests and view their records. Managers have real-time access to these records, which improves communication between management and workers. This transparency and empowerment can improve employee satisfaction and engagement. When employees spend less time dealing with paperwork, they are more engaged and dedicate more time to their core job responsibilities, ultimately contributing to higher productivity. How can Truein help you with timesheet automation? Truein is an Al-powered timesheet automation solution utilizing hardware-less deployment and cloud infrastructure. It is helping clients across industries streamline their attendance and time-tracking processing leading to higher efficiency and productivity. With Truein, organizations can enable digital clock-in and checkout for their workforce. It is an excellent time-tracking solution for distributed and temporary/contractual workforce & inhouse employees. With its GPS-enabled Geofencing technology, companies can rest assured that workers are present on time and paid only for hours worked. With real-time employee attendance tracking, managers and HR personnel can monitor who is in the office or on-site at any time. Truein also offers reporting features that allow organizations to analyze attendance data, track employee productivity , and make informed decisions about resource allocation. As a standalone application, you can deploy Truein for any number of workers by installing it on their smartphones. Many more features include payroll integration, notification and alerts, company policy management, and more. Learn more about Truein features here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Timesheet automation is essential for organizations to ensure their continued growth and effective workforce management. Automated systems offer complete time-tracking automation, providing various benefits for organizations. Such automation can result in cost savings, improved adherence to guidelines, streamlined communication, reduced errors, decreased administrative burden, and enhanced employee productivity. Implementing an automated timesheet system can solve these issues if you struggle with operational efficiency, accuracy, and overall effectiveness in workforce management. FAQs 1. What is the purpose of automated timesheets? Timesheet automation is essential for greater efficiency and accurate tracking and recording of employee working hours, tasks performed, and other relevant time-related information. The primary goal is to streamline the recording and managing of workforce time data, reducing manual effort, minimizing errors, and improving overall efficiency. Time tracking automation is necessary for productivity, allowing employees to log their work hours, breaks, and other time-related activities electronically. This data is then processed, calculated, and stored digitally, facilitating accurate payroll processing, labor cost analysis, and compliance with labor laws and company policies. 2. Why is a timesheet important in any organization? There are several reasons why organizations must automate time tracking. The foremost reason is payroll accuracy, simplifying calculating regular hours, overtime, and special pay rates. This ensures employees are paid correctly and on time, reducing payroll errors and disputes. Timesheet data also helps management allocate resources as they can easily track how workers give their time across various tasks and projects. Organizations can optimize the resource allocation process, which makes project management much easier, and tasks can be assigned efficiently. Furthermore, timesheets help organizations adhere to compliance and legal requirements ensuring they demonstrate compliance with labor laws, especially regarding overtime and breaks. 3. What are the benefits of automated timesheets? Timesheet automation brings accuracy to several aspects of business management. It reduces the risk of errors associated with manual data entry, leading to more accurate records, calculations, and payroll processing. Accuracy then spawns efficiency in business decisions due to precise planning and forecasting. Time tracking automation requires the electronic submission, approval, and processing of timesheets. It enforces streamlining of workflow, saving time and reducing administrative burden. Organizations can improve cost savings by reducing labor costs associated with manual timesheet processing and calculation errors such as overpayment or underpayment. Timesheet automation also ensures compliance, transparency, and efficiency in data analysis, enabling organizations to gain insights into labor costs, resource allocation, and project profitability. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs HR Automation: 8 Human Resource Processes That Can Be Improved With Automation 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Tips for Creating a Perfect Employee Roster Tips for Creating a Perfect Employee Roster May 20, 2024 An employee roster is more than a simple list of how many hours your employees have worked in a week. It is an effective tool to manage the employees’ productivity by providing an inside into their hours of operations and job responsibilities. When utilized appropriately, a shift rooster can be a vital organizational tool for businesses to allocate resources and manage workforce availability efficiently. It would help if you had proper rostering to ensure the right employees are in the right place at the right time, enhancing productivity and employee satisfaction. In this article, we will look at some ways of creating the most productive employee rooster to help your business meet its goals. Table of Contents What is employee roster? Types of roster 1. Duty roster 2. Flexible roster 3. Staggered roster 4. Staff roster 5. Shift roster 6. Working roster How To Roster Staff Effectively? 1. Purchase the roster software and plan its components 2. Decide schedule options, then fill your shifts 3. Allocate busy shifts to skilled staff 4. Have a proper schedule for absence management and unavailability 5. Assign tasks to the best team who works well together 6. Allow your employees to check their roster How To Make A Staff Roster In Excel? How can Truein help with employee rostering? 1. It saves time to record attendance manually 2. Prevent Clock In Clock out spams 3. Keep employees informed about their attendance Conclusion FAQs 1. How to make a good duty roster for staff? 2. What parameters must you consider before creating an employee roster? 3. What are the principles of good rostering? 4. What is the purpose of rostering software? What is employee roster? Commonly known as rota or roster, an employee roster is a list of employees and their tasks to perform. With a roster, you can assign a schedule of activities to every employee. For example, one can assign a schedule of meeting or a proper list of tasks to be completed. By using an employee roster, an organization can efficiently improve its workplace productivity and achieve business goals in a systematic manner. When employees have a roster, they are more alert regarding their tasks and duties to perform. It helps to keep them informed. Types of roster As a manager, your responsibility includes understanding different types of rosters that an organization can implement. Each type of online rostering tool provides certain benefits over others, and when managers are aware of each type, they can pick one which best fits the demand and supply goals. 1. Duty roster A duty roster is a scheduling method managers can use to ensure that the right number of employees are assigned the duties. In this method, managers assign specific duties or tasks to employees based on their roles or skill sets. It outlines who is responsible for particular tasks, such as opening or closing a facility, managing customer service, or handling specialized functions. Duty rosters ensure that essential functions are covered efficiently and each employee knows their responsibilities. 2. Flexible roster If a company’s business operations allow flexible schedules, then HR can have a flexible roster that gives employees more control over their schedules. This type of rostering accommodates the individual preferences and work-life balance of workers. You can allow employees to choose their start and end times in the flexible roster, provided they fulfill their required hours. The above shift roster boosts morale and engagement by empowering employees to tailor their schedules to their needs. 3. Staggered roster A staggered roster is the type of employee roster that creates shifts that start and end at different times to ensure coverage of all operating hours. Restaurant managers usually use this type of working roster to schedule more employees for dinner shifts than lunch. Other industries using staggered rosters are healthcare, manufacturing, and customer service. It is excellent for resource utilization and allows managers to hire employees with different lifestyles. 4. Staff roster A staff roster is the simplest and is designed to distribute work hours fairly among all employees. With a staff roster, managers can ensure an evenly distributed workload while maintaining appropriate staffing levels. This type of roster promotes equity and prevents overburdening specific team members, ensuring every worker gets the same work and rest periods. Staff rosters are commonly used in industries with consistent work patterns. 5. Shift roster A common type of roster in industries that have 24/7 operations, shift roster divides employees into distinct shifts, each covering a specific period. Managers can allow workers to take different shifts regularly or put them on the same shift depending on the requirements. Shift rosters benefits in many ways like help ensure 24/7 coverage and manage workload fluctuations. 6. Working roster A working roster tracks regular working hours, rest days, and overtime. It outlines the days and times each employee is scheduled to work, providing a clear overview of their work schedule for a specified period. This type of roster facilitates better workforce management allowing employees to plan their personal and professional activities and allowing managers to allocate resources efficiently. As evident, each type of roster serves different staffing needs and varies according to industries. The choice of the employee roster type must depend on factors like business operations, employee preferences, industry regulations, and continuous coverage requirements of the company. How To Roster Staff Effectively? Follow these 6 tips for creating a perfect employee roster: 1. Purchase the roster software and plan its components Automation is essential to perfect an employee roster for your business. Invest in reliable rostering software that suits your organization’s needs. Pick a software solution that provides a complete set of tools for rostering. Plan out the components you’ll use within the software, such as shift templates, employee attendance, absence and time off management , and reporting features. Picking an employee rostering software that can be customized to align with your business requirements will help streamline the workforce scheduling process and enhance accuracy. 2. Decide schedule options, then fill your shifts Managers sometimes think of the staff names first before determining the schedule options, skills, or types of roles they need to fill. It leads to inefficient rostering and a mismatch between required staff and available employees. Determine the required shifts types, such as morning, afternoon, evening, or overnight shifts, the length of each shift and any specific requirements for each role. Once you clearly understand these scheduling needs, fill the shifts in the roster software based on employee availability and skill sets. 3. Allocate busy shifts to skilled staff Use data analytics and alerts to identify peak or busy periods such that you are well-staffed when the requirement for skills arises. Assign the most experienced employees to cover these shifts, as skilled staff can handle increased workloads more effectively. It ensures that high-quality service is delivered during demanding times. This is how managers can maintain productivity and customer satisfaction during busy periods. 4. Have a proper schedule for absence management and unavailability The success of the shift roster is also affected by how easy it is for employees to request leave of absence . Managers must establish a clear and organized process for employees to submit time off requests or communicate their unavailability. This is another reason to use roster software like Truein that accommodates absence management. 5. Assign tasks to the best team who works well together Always consider the dynamics among employees when creating teams or assigning shifts. When put together, groups and individuals that work well together and complement each other’s strengths can be highly productive. A proper employee roster can lead to effective teamwork, enhance productivity, improve communication, and create a positive work environment. 6. Allow your employees to check their roster Another way to create a perfect roster is to allow employees access to their schedules through the rostering software. Allowing employees to view their work schedules in advance helps them plan their personal lives, such as managing doctor appointments. Transparent access to schedules promotes better employee engagement and reduces confusion. How To Make A Staff Roster In Excel? It is easiest to make a staff roster in excel. Furthermore, find the steps to follow which helps create a staff roster: Open Microsoft Excel Under the tab “File”, click “New” Inside search bar, type “Schedule” and then press enter Scroll through the number of templates to find one that suits your business Click “Create” and your roster in excel is open Otherwise, you can also use our readymade staff roster template . Screenshot of Staff Roster in Excel How can Truein help with employee rostering? 1. It saves time to record attendance manually Truein eliminates the need to record attendance on manual excel spreadsheets. It provides a complete employee rostering solution with its AI-powered features for employee attendance and time tracking. It has a shift schedule management option that managers can use to create an employee roster to share with employees. With central attendance and leave data, managers are aware of the availability of employees. 2. Prevent Clock In Clock out spams As a cloud-based face recognition attendance system, it’s highly accurate and protects against attendance spamming and buddy punching. 3. Keep employees informed about their attendance It also encourages productivity and satisfaction as employees have transparent access to their attendance and shift data. Employees can anytime check their attendance, work hours, leaves, etc using Truein. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion A perfect employee roster leverages technology to strategically allocate shifts by focusing on employee needs and skill sets. With roster software like Truein, businesses can optimize their scheduling processes , improve workforce management, and enhance overall operational efficiency. FAQs 1. How to make a good duty roster for staff? Creating a good duty roster for staff starts with allocating shifts and responsibilities, allocating busiest periods of shifts to most-skilled employees, etc. This way, each employee stays aware of their responsibilities. It would help if you had strategic planning, effective communication, and flexibility to create a good staff roster. Start by analyzing your organization’s workload patterns and match them with employee availability and preferences. Then make a roster that complies with labor laws and provides flexibility for work-life balance. 2. What parameters must you consider before creating an employee roster? You need to understand the organization’s demands at different times. Consider each employee’s availability and skill sets, labor laws, time-off requests, and preferences. 3. What are the principles of good rostering? Fairness, efficiency, skill-based task allocation, transparency, compliance, flexibility, and open communication are the principles of good rostering. 4. What is the purpose of rostering software? The purpose of rostering software is to improve workforce efficiency & save costs with careful planning of employee shifts. Proper rostering planning can help optimize labor costs, reduce absenteeism, boost productivity, boost staff morale thereby improving retention. Optimally utilizing your rostering data can also assist in headcount forecasting for future business needs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Construction Cost Management - Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Logistics & Supply Chain Management »  					Logistics Workforce Management Logistics Workforce Management May 27, 2024 Managing distributed labor and fleet challenges are complicated for the logistics industry. More than simple workforce management processes is required for this industry. That’s why logistic workforce management requires an integrated set of processes to optimize the productivity of its employees. Effective logistic workforce management refers to strategically planning, coordinating, and optimizing workers within the logistics and supply chain industry for higher customer and employee satisfaction. The workforce management processes in supply chain management are distributed among recruitment, deployment, and management of the workers. The prime objective is to ensure smooth operations within distribution centers, warehouses, and transportation networks. You can benefit from the tips included in this pose for efficiently managing the logistics workforce. These tips can help businesses improve productivity while simultaneously reducing operational costs and in turn improve the overall supply chain performance. Table of Contents Ten tips to improve logistics workforce management 1. Hire the Right Staff 2. Invest rightly in DC managers & supervisors 3. Retain the workforce 4. Develop internal managers/supervisors 5. Hire temporary staff 6. Use a labor management system 7. Measure individual productivity 8. Develop relationships with staffing agencies 9. Invest in logistics training 10. Outsource warehouse management Advantages of Logistics Workforce Management Conclusion FAQs 1. What is workforce management in Logistics? 2. What does workforce management do? 3. What are the four basic steps of WFM? Ten tips to improve logistics workforce management 1. Hire the Right Staff Irrespective of the industry, organizations cannot expect high productivity and efficiency if the right people are not hired. Hiring the right staff is one of the best ways to reduce turnover and improve productivity. An essential step towards improving workforce logistics is creating a hiring process that identifies workers with the right skills, experience, and qualifications to take specific roles within logistics operations. In the logistics industry, the skills are relatively easy to learn. This is why you must focus on hiring candidates for their attitude over their skills. Anyone can know how to operate a forklift or an RF gun with little training, but attitude and ambitions are qualities that can’t be easily nurtured. To hire the right staff, you should have a well-designed recruitment process to hire employees well-suited for their tasks. 2. Invest rightly in DC managers & supervisors Most companies think workforce management in supply chain management is about micromanaging the lowest-level staff. It’s a misplaced judgment because distribution center (DC) managers and supervisors disproportionately impact logistics workers’ satisfaction and retention. HR managers hardly ever have a direct conversation with the logistic workforce; the mid-level managers represent your company for them. You must train these mid-level managers to empower them with informed decision-making and improve their interpersonal skills. If DC managers and supervisors have strong leadership qualities, it will create a cohesive and motivated workforce. 3. Retain the workforce A significant challenge of logistic workforce management is to retain qualified, dependable workers once you have hired them. On average, recruiting and training staff in the logistics supply chain costs thousands of dollars. The cost might vary depending on the role’s responsibilities, but you will lose big time if you fail to retain the workforce. To reduce turnover, you must implement strategies that engage employees, recognize their hard work, and reward high performance. And remember to provide them with enough opportunities for career advancement. Evaluate the current salary and benefits package to ensure no dissatisfaction among workers because of compensation. Also, miscalculated pay i.e. overpayment or underpayment due to mistracking of employee work hours can result in dissatisfaction among affected employees. An accurate time tracking software that automatically clocks in and clocks out employee timings can help easily resolve such issues. Along with this, a positive work environment and clear growth paths encourage employees to stay committed to the organization. 4. Develop internal managers/supervisors The most common approach to filling open positions in logistics companies is looking for outside talent. Unlike tech companies that prefer hiring within the organization to foster loyalty and a sense of security among workers, the logistic workforce does not enjoy the same approach. Another way to improve WFM logistics is to develop internal talent. When you have invested so many resources into training staff, why not give opportunities to high-potential employees to move up in their careers? Identify such talent, provide them with training and mentorship, and encourage them to take on leadership roles. Internal promotions also help maintain institutional knowledge and culture. 5. Hire temporary staff Temporary staff logistics companies can be a valuable tool to hire full-time employees. Create opportunities for skilled and suitable candidates to shift from temporary workforce to full-time roles. Managers within supply chain management actively assess the skills and work ethics of the temporary workforce, and if found culturally fit, they should be offered a transition to permanent positions. It will save time and resources on recruiting and training. 6. Use a labor management system A labor management system (LMS) can be instrumental in automating various aspects of workforce management in logistics. It facilitates optimizing schedules, task assignments, and performance tracking. Truein is a robust attendance and time-tracking software that can be a complete LMS. Due to its AI-powered algorithms and cloud infrastructure, it can be deployed to cover distributed supply chain workforce. I t provides real-time insights into workforce productivity through attendance, overtime, and location tracking. Insights provided by Truein can be instrumental in introducing timely adjustments for the logistics workforce. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 7. Measure individual productivity LMS is focused on improving teams’ productivity, but you should also focus on monitoring individual productivity. A significant challenge of workforce management in supply chain management is identifying and improving productivity gaps. Train mid-level managers to set individual productivity goals for tasks. Then they should monitor workers’ performance, identify improvement areas, and fulfill training needs. Share the performance metrics and key performance indicators (KPIs) with workers so they know what they need to do to improve their efficiency, accuracy, and contribution to overall operational goals. 8. Develop relationships with staffing agencies Logistics and supply chains are labor-intensive industries. You need strategies to maintain enough workforce to manage fluctuating order volumes economically. If you rush to hire staff every time there is high demand, you must pay higher wages. Building partnerships with staffing agencies provides a flexible and scalable workforce solution. It allows you to keep the permanent staff to a minimum and have access to temporary staff. Staffing agencies manage a pool of pre-screened candidates you can hire during peak seasons or sudden demand spikes. 9. Invest in logistics training You already have a training program implemented to onboard new hires, but how effective that program is in getting the logistics workforce to maximum productivity needs attention. One way to improve workforce management software for the logistics industry is to provide regular training to enhance employee skills and adaptability. Develop training programs tailored to your logistics operations, such as safety protocols, inventory management, equipment operation, and customer service. A well-trained staff is efficient and more productive. 10. Outsource warehouse management Warehouse management requires a large number of workers. Also, training staff for warehouse management can be expensive. A better alternative can be outsourcing warehouse management to specialized providers. Such service providers have the expertise, technology, and experience to create optimized processes to alleviate the burden of managing daily operations. Advantages of Logistics Workforce Management Efficient logistics workforce management offers several benefits, such as streamlining business operations, better order fulfillment, improved customer satisfaction, reduced labor costs, and enhanced inventory management. Conclusion Workforce management in supply chains is critical for the smooth functioning of the whole supply chain. You can optimize your logistics workforce for improved efficiency with the tips shared here. It also offers a competitive edge over competitors in the dynamic logistics industry. FAQs 1. What is workforce management in Logistics? Logistics workforce management is the strategic planning, allocation, and coordination of human resources within in supply chain to optimize operations. 2. What does workforce management do? Workforce management ensures that the right person with the required skills and qualifications is hired and deployed efficiently. In the logistics industry, effective workforce management leads to improved productivity, cost savings, and overall operational excellence. 3. What are the four basic steps of WFM? The four essential workforce management (WFM) strategy steps are forecasting labor requirements, staffing, managing employee time and attendance, and optimizing workforce performance. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Security Workforce Management Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay March 31, 2024 Taking care of employee payroll involves understanding industry jargon. Time and a half is one such term that every HR manager must know. It is a term related to an overtime pay structure typically applicable for hours extra than the 40-hour week or for working on holidays. Globally, the standard overtime pay rate is time and a half of the regular hour wage. But what is time and a half pay? This post will discuss the basics of time and a half pay, when it is applicable, and how to calculate it. Table of Contents What is Time and a Half Pay? Who qualifies for time and a half pay? How to calculate Time and A half pay for hourly employees? Step 1: Calculate the standard hourly rate of pay Step 2: Multiply the standard rate by 1.5 Step 3: Calculate overtime wages Step 4: Total pay calculation Overtime for salaried employees Step 1. Calculate the per-hour rate Step 2. Calculate time and a half pay rate Step 3. Calculate total overtime wages Step 4. Calculate the total pay Conclusion FAQs 1. When do time and half pay apply? 2. Which holidays are eligible for time and a half pay? 3. What is the difference between exempt and non exempt employee? What is Time and a Half Pay? Time and a half is an overtime pay rate which is paid as the extra compensation to the employees for working ‘additional hours.’ The definition of additional hours differs from the conventional 40 hours a week. Companies can also offer overtime time and a half for certain circumstances, for instance, working on holidays or taking up a late shift. In this case, you’re eligible for time and a half holiday pay. The time-and-a-half rate pays workers 50% more than their regular hourly rate. Still, this premium pay is the appropriate reward for working extra time or covering unwanted shifts. This saves employers money as they don’t have to spend extra on hiring additional workers. However, only some employees are eligible for time and a half pay; specific rules under FSLA labor laws bring the concept of exempt and nonexempt employees. Who qualifies for time and a half pay? HR must understand which employees qualify for a time and a half pay. As per the FLSA guidelines, all hourly and nonexempt employees must receive overtime compensation for the extra hours worked outside the defined 40-hour workweek. Failing to comply with overtime requirements can have consequences such as lawsuits and fines, or you might have to back your employees in addition to damages and legal fees. So let’s understand who are exempt and nonexempt employees. Exempt are not eligible for overtime pay or covered by the FLSA. An exempt worker is a salaried employee who gets monthly or annual pay rather than hourly rates. Such employees get a yearly pay of at least $35,568. Exempt employees often serve in higher position roles in management, administration, executive, IT, etc. Furthermore, some hourly employees can also be considered exempt from the FLSA, such as food industry truck drivers and film employees. Nonexempt employees are included in the FLSA and must be paid time and a half for the overtime hours. All hourly employees are nonexempt unless they are employed in the abovementioned roles. These employees have annual pay below $35,568 and are usually in mid or low-level roles. Therefore, your time and a half calculator must consider the employee type when determining who is eligible for overtime pay. Your company’s time-and-a-half compensation policy must follow the FLSA legal framework. Also, some states have additional overtime laws apart from federal labor laws that you must consider if you are located in these states. For example, states like California and Alaska require nonexempt employees to be paid daily rather than weekly overtime. Also, in these states, employers must pay time and a half overtime for every hour above the standard 8 hours per day. How to calculate Time and A half pay for hourly employees? Understanding how to calculate time and a half pay for hourly and salaried employees is essential for accurate payroll. Step 1: Calculate the standard hourly rate of pay Begin by calculating the standard hourly rate of pay for the employees based on their regular hourly wage. The regular wage is the base rate for the time and a half-calculator. For example, if you pay workers $10 hourly, then it is their base rate. Step 2: Multiply the standard rate by 1.5 The next step is to determine the time and a-half rate. The calculation is simple; you multiply the base salary rate by 1.5 to get overtime pay. This is the rate that nonexempt employees must get for the extra hours. For example, a worker earning $10 per hour will be paid time and a half rate based on this formula: Time and a half pay= $10 × 1.5 = $15 per hour Step 3: Calculate overtime wages Now you will calculate the total overtime wages earned during the pay period. For this calculation, you must multiply the overtime hours by the time and the half-pay rate you calculated in Step 2. If the employee working for 10 overtime hours, their overtime wage will be: Overtime wages= Number of overtime hours × time and a half rate Overtime wages = 10 hours × $15 = $150 Step 4: Total pay calculation For the total pay, you must calculate the wages earned from regular hours and those earned from overtime hours. If the employee worked 40 regular hours (non-overtime): Total Pay = (Standard Hourly Rate × Regular Hours) + Overtime Wages Total Pay = ($10 × 40 hours) + $150 = $400 + $150 = $550 “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Overtime for salaried employees Some salaried employees are also entitled to overtime pay time. If their salary falls short of the required $35,568, they are entitled to time and a half pay. Suppose you pay salaried employees $15 per hour, so their standard annual pay will be $31,200 per year, making them nonexempt under FLSA. Let’s take this example. A salaried employee works 55 hours a week at $15 per hour. It makes them nonexempt, and they must be paid time and a half for the 15 overtime hours. Step 1. Calculate the per-hour rate As their annual pay is $31,200, their monthly pay will be: $31,200 / 52 weeks =$600 Now to convert monthly pay to hourly rate: $600 / 40 hours = $15. Step 2. Calculate time and a half pay rate We will use the same equation as above for this calculation. Time and a half pay rate = $15 x 1.5 =$22.50 Step 3. Calculate total overtime wages Considering the $22.50 per overtime hour rate and the number of hours worked: Total overtime wages = $22.50 x 15 hours = $337.50 Step 4. Calculate the total pay We add regular week wages and overtime weekly wages to calculate the total pay for the week. Total wages= $600 + $337.50 = $937.50 Please find below the mostly commonly asked time and half calculations. Time and Half Calculations Hourly Rate Time and Half Rate Time and Half for $20 an Hour $20 $30 Time and Half for $16 an Hour $16 $24 Time and Half for $12 an Hour $12 $18 Conclusion Time and a half pay is an essential concept for businesses. We hope this guide has highlighted the time and a half pay and how it is calculated for salaried and nonexempt employees. An essential aspect of these calculations is the accurate tracking of hours worked. Truein, an AI-based face recognition attendance and time tracking solution , can be an excellent solution. It can accurately record regular hours, overtime hours , and leaves which can be fed directly into the payroll system for salary calculations. FAQs 1. When do time and half pay apply? Time and a half pay typically applies to overtime hours an employee works. Overtime hours are usually extra hours outside the 40 hours a week. Time and a half pay means you pay employees one and a half times their regular hourly wage for each overtime hour. However, time and a half pay can also be applied for working on holidays and certain circumstances like taking unwanted shifts. However, time and a half pay can also be applied for working on holidays and certain circumstances like taking unwanted shifts. 2. Which holidays are eligible for time and a half pay? There are no federal laws regarding the list of holidays eligible for time and a half pay. It entirely depends on the local labor laws and company policies. However, in most cases, major public holidays such as New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas are eligible for overtime pay. 3. What is the difference between exempt and non exempt employee? The basic and most important difference between exempt and non exempt employees is that non-exempt workers are entitled to certain benefits and protections under the Fair Law Standards Act (FLSA). It is a law that defines laws related to minimum wage and overtime pay. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? What Is Double Time Pay & A Half, When Is It Mandatory & How To Calculate It? Missouri Overtime Law: A Complete Guide on Missouri Law on Overtime Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? May 28, 2024 Hiring an employee is a responsibility that requires adequate planning and decision on whether the new worker will be a full-time, exempt employee or not. Exempt employees are given higher levels of responsibility and greater decision-making authority. There are both advantages and disadvantages to hiring full-time exempt employees. Understanding who is a full-time exempt employee and how they affect your workforce is essential. That’s what we are going to discuss in this blog. Table of Contents What Is An Exempt Employee? How does Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) classify an exempt employee in the USA? 1. Based on salary level 2. Based on the salary base test 3. Based on Duties performed test Understanding the advantages and disadvantages of hiring an exempt employee for your business 1. Flexibility 2. No overtime 3. Higher skills 4. Job dedication 5. More productive due to autonomy 6. Higher costs 7. No deductions 8. Burnout risk 9. Potential for misclassification How to determine if your business requires a full-time exempt employee/employees? Tips for Hiring Full-Time Exempt Employees Advantages and disadvantages for employees 1. Consistent income 2. Higher positions 3. Freedom 4. No overtime 5. Low motivation Conclusion FAQs 1. How many hours an exempt employee should work per week? 2. What is exempted and non-exempted employee? 3. What is the difference between full time exempt and nonexempt employees? What Is An Exempt Employee? Exempt employees are not required to follow a work schedule or shift. That makes a full time exempt position so lucrative for candidates, as they can work on certain days of the week. As full-time exempt employees are ‘exempted’ from fixed work schedules, they can work as much or as little to fulfill their responsibilities. Including such staff in your workforce introduces a challenge because the management can’t decide their schedule. Such employees have the autonomy to determine their schedules. Full-time exempt are salaried employees who are paid a monthly or annual salary. How does Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) classify an exempt employee in the USA? The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has defined clear conditions for exempt employees in the USA. Such employees are not regulated under the Fair Labor Standards Act, essentially allowing employers to not adhere to the overtime pay and minimum wage federal requirements. Here are the factors FLSA has based the classification of a full-time exempt employee: 1. Based on salary level Salaried employees can be exempt only if they earn a full time exempt salary of at least $684 per week or $35,568 annually. Any worker in your workforce earning less than $648 per week cannot be exempt. 2. Based on the salary base test Another difference between full-time exempt and nonexempt is the salary base test. A full-time exempt employee’s salary is not subject to reduction under any circumstances, including poor performance-related decrease. 3. Based on Duties performed test Under the duties performed test criteria, an employee must work in executive, professional, administrative, outside sales, or roles to qualify as full-time exempt. This test does not consider the job title; here, the employee’s job tasks supersede their title. Even if their titles do not have these words, but their tasks fall into these categories, they can be exempt. Understanding the advantages and disadvantages of hiring an exempt employee for your business Hiring full-time exempt employees comes with its own set of advantages and disadvantages. You must know the pros and cons to make an informed decision. Let’s break down the advantages and disadvantages of hiring exempt employees. Here are the advantages you must know. 1. Flexibility Exempt employees often have more flexibility in their work schedules. As such, staff is not required to adhere to strict hours and can usually manage their time to meet job goals and deadlines; managers don’t have to create work schedules. 2. No overtime Employers don’t have to pay overtime to full-time exempt staff, no matter how many hours these employees work per week. The full-time nonexempt workers must be paid 1.5 times their usual pay rates as overtime for more than 40 hours a week. This is why overtime can be a significant savings for employers for hiring exempt staff. 3. Higher skills Exempt employees are typically highly skilled and are experts in their field. They are an excellent asset for your business and offer higher output than their nonexempt counterparts. If your organization requires highly skilled staff, then a full-time exempt route may be the best option for cost savings. 4. Job dedication As exempt employees have a highly flexible work schedule, they have a better work-life balance, which is why they tend to have a higher level of commitment to their roles. As they work when they are most productive, they are invested in achieving results and contributing to the company’s success. 5. More productive due to autonomy A full-time exempt employee has more autonomy in decision-making and problem-solving. This makes them more productive and innovative in their roles. You can also give them more responsibilities, such as business mergers and delivery deadlines. You can ask them to work longer hours when needed without expecting to pay overtime. It would help to consider specific challenges when expanding your workforce with full-time exempt staff. 6. Higher costs While you save on overtime, exempt employees are typically paid a fixed salary. You have to hire them at a higher salary because of their expertise and experience. This can lead to higher labor costs than nonexempt employees who work regular hours and overtime. 7. No deductions Even if the exempt employees are not working at least 40 hours a week, you still cannot deduct their pay. In other words, sometimes you will pay them more than the hours worked. Furthermore, although exempt employees are not entitled to overtime pay, some might expect it for working longer hours. 8. Burnout risk Sometimes employers exploit the long hours of work routine for exempt employees as there is no overtime obligation. It can increase the risk of burnout among exempt employees, negatively affecting their productivity and well-being. 9. Potential for misclassification Given the complexity around the classification of a full time exempt position, it is very much possible that companies need help to correctly classify employees as exempt or nonexempt based on their job duties and responsibilities. Misclassifying employees could lead to legal and financial consequences. How to determine if your business requires a full-time exempt employee/employees? To determine whether you need full-time exempt employees, you must carefully evaluate your company’s needs, workload, and available resources. Start by identifying the specific business tasks and responsibilities that are critical. If these tasks can be managed by part-time or temporary staff, there is no need for full-time exempt staff. However, some tasks have complexity that requires a higher skill level, experience, or specialized knowledge. Such employees can be exempt if the role provides flexibility in schedule or demands availability outside of regular hours. Finally, consider the budget constraints to decide if you can afford the salary and benefits of a full-time exempt position. Tips for Hiring Full-Time Exempt Employees Clearly define the qualifications, experience, and skills required for the full-time exempt position. It will get suitable candidates for the position. Pay attention to candidates’ soft skills, such as communication, teamwork, adaptability, and leadership potential. These are essential qualities for exempt positions as they require autonomy. Full-time exempt employees are highly skilled and experienced. It would help if you prepared a competitive and attractive compensation package, including salary, benefits, and additional perks to get eligible resumes. Advantages and disadvantages for employees Being a full-time exempt employee offers several benefits but with challenges. That’s why employees must consider both when applying for a position. 1. Consistent income As a salaried employee, you will receive steady pay without any risk of deductions. 2. Higher positions Often higher positions are made full-time exempt, so being a full-time exempt employee will get you better pay and an advanced role in the company. 3. Freedom As a salaried exempt employee, you can manage your work schedule and tasks. On the downside, here are some disadvantages of a full-time exempt position. 4. No overtime Irrespective of how long you work, you are not entitled to overtime as an exempt employee. 5. Low motivation The security of a fixed salary can nurture complacency, and full-time exempt employees may need more motivation to better their performance. Conclusion You may have to include full-time exempt employees to ensure your business operations run smoothly and efficiently. It requires understanding the advantages and disadvantages of such positions and managing compliance in pay, attendance, and overtime accordingly. A workforce management software like Truein can significantly facilitate the management of a full-time exempt workforce. It’s a complete attendance and time-tracking solution offering 70+ policy templates to manage different types of employees. Know more here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account FAQs 1. How many hours an exempt employee should work per week? Exempt employees are not subject to federal or state overtime pay regulations, so they can work as little or as extra as required to complete tasks. 2. What is exempted and non-exempted employee? An exempt employee is a salaried worker exempt from specific provisions of labor laws, such as overtime pay. They generally don’t get overtime but have higher positions and better pay than full time non exempt employees. Nonexempt employees are typically paid hourly and entitled to overtime pay for hours worked beyond the standard 40-hour workweek. They are governed by the labor laws regulated by the FLSA. 3. What is the difference between full time exempt and nonexempt employees? The primary difference between exempt and nonexempt employees is their eligibility for overtime pay. Exempt workers are not entitled to overtime pay, while nonexempt employees receive overtime. Also, full-time exempt positions are salaried, while nonexempt is paid hourly. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Planning - Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? Impact of Employee Burnout on Your Workforce: Warning Signs, Causes and Best Preventive Measures Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Logistics & Supply Chain Management »  					Supply Chain Issues of 2023 and Possible Solutions Supply Chain Issues of 2023 and Possible Solutions October 8, 2024 Post-COVID-19, every industry is facing challenges, but a sector that experienced unprecedented disruptions in operations is the supply chain. The pandemic highlighted the volatility in the market for logistics and brought forward some unique supply chain issues. In 2023, supply chain issues will be customer-centric. According to Gartner, 62% of leading supply chain companies invest in solutions to improve customer experience rather than cost-cutting. You must know about emerging supply chain problems and solutions to these challenges in the industry. Table of Contents What are supply chain issues? What are the biggest global supply chain issues in 2023? 1. Increased Competition 2. Higher consumer expectations 3. Shortage of skilled workforce 4. Demand forecasting challenges 5. Cybersecurity 6. Climate change 7. Environmental sustainability 8. Increasing costs and material scarcity 9. Transparency and traceability 10. Costing and budgeting The impact of geopolitical factors on the current state of global supply chains Possible solutions to resolve supply chain issues 1. Embrace innovation 2. Hold more inventory and diversify product sources 3. Improve demand forecasting 4. Work on return rates 5. Digitize supply chains Conclusion FAQs 1. How did the supply chain issues start? 2. Will the supply chain improve in 2023? 3. What is the supply chain strategy for 2023? What are supply chain issues? Supply chain issues refer to the challenges and disruptions in the smooth flow of goods and services from suppliers to consumers. These issues can result from various factors, and in recent years, complex factors have converged to create a perfect storm of challenges, causing supply chain issues on a global scale. Let’s look at these challenges and their possible solutions. What are the biggest global supply chain issues in 2023? 1. Increased Competition During the pandemic, supply chain companies had an unpleasant awakening of how much they stand to lose if they are not expanding or utilizing the latest technologies. Today, the race to expand in other markets and the availability of advanced technology is driving up the competition in the market. More players are in the market, forcing businesses to offer competitive pricing while improving the quality of their services and customer experience. The heightened competition is one of the current supply chain issues that demand optimizing efficiency to meet the increased demand. 2. Higher consumer expectations During the pandemic, the rise of next-day delivery services has introduced a behavior change in customers. When offline stores closed due to lockdown, hyper-delivery services became popular, and now, even after the pandemic, most customers expect fast delivery of their orders. Not to mention free shipping is an attractive option. This is why businesses are challenged to manage the rising delivery cost without charging the customers to retain their loyalty and satisfaction. 3. Shortage of skilled workforce The supply chain is labor-intensive, and the skilled workforce shortage remains challenging in 2023. A critical point of contention is the difference in demand for a younger workforce compared to an aging workforce. Younger workers expect a higher work-life balance. Also, many potential workers don’t consider the supply chain lucrative. Companies need more skilled workers in critical areas such as supply chain management, logistics, and operations. The talent competition is high, and companies must focus on adopting technology to reduce the labor manual to attract talent. 4. Demand forecasting challenges Unpredictable consumer behavior and changing marketplace dynamics make it more challenging to map demand forecasting. Such rapidly changing consumer preferences, shopping habits, and expectations significantly impact demand patterns and inventory management. B usinesses have a new supply chain issue to adapt to shifting consumer behavior and adjust their supply chains to meet these changes. 5. Cybersecurity The increased digitization of supply chains in 2023 makes them susceptible to cyber threats such as data breaches and ransomware attacks. Cybersecurity is becoming one of the most essential aspects of supply chain management. Businesses adopting technology to optimize their supply chain management operations should also focus on improving the security of the systems. Cybersecurity vulnerabilities can compromise sensitive information, disrupt operations, and lead to delays in production and distribution. 6. Climate change Climate change is a significant challenge for supply chain management. From being the hottest year ever recorded to extreme climatic disasters, 2023 is a difficult year . Extreme weather events such as rising sea levels and natural disasters have introduced new supply chain challenges as disruption of transportation routes, infrastructure damage, and impact on production facilities are causing delays and interruptions in the flow of goods. 7. Environmental sustainability The climatic disasters in 2023 highlighted the requirement for environmental sustainability in every industry. As the supply chain industry is constantly scrutinized for its carbon footprint and how it impacts the environment, changing regulatory requirements can profoundly impact global supply chains. One of the most significant challenges in supply chain management today is the integration of eco-friendly practices. Businesses are under increasing pressure to not only reduce their carbon footprints but also to meet stringent environmental standards. As consumer demand for sustainable packaging continues to rise, companies are exploring innovative ways to meet these expectations while maintaining operational efficiency. These changes require supply chain companies to make significant operational changes with high-cost implications. 8. Increasing costs and material scarcity The supply chain requires a lot of raw materials and resources. The environmental concerns, geopolitical tensions, and trade disruptions in 2023 are causing severe fluctuations in commodity prices and a shortage of raw materials. Increasing operational cost is causing global supply chain issues, further worsening due to inflation. Businesses need help with increased production costs, which also affects product availability. The inability to secure affordable and reliable sources of essential materials is one of the supply chain bottlenecks that require attention. 9. Transparency and traceability For many years, regulators and consumers have wanted transparency to know about the origin of products, ensure ethical sourcing and traceability of environmental impact. Transparency and traceability remain the current supply chain issues; to meet these requirements while maintaining a competitive edge, companies must invest in technology solutions that enable end-to-end visibility and real-time traceability in the supply chains. 10. Costing and budgeting Rising inflation, geopolitical changes, and rising competition continuously increase operating costs for supply chain companies. Increasing fuel and energy prices and strict regulations around environmental regulations are raising input costs for companies. However, customers expect faster delivery at a lower cost, decreasing company revenue. This is a dual challenge that logistics companies need to face in 2023. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account The impact of geopolitical factors on the current state of global supply chains Supply chain issues in 2023 are compounded by unprecedented geopolitical uncertainty. According to SAP , most retailers hold political uncertainty as one of the main reasons for current supply chain issues. The Russia-Ukraine conflict has a profound impact on the global supply chains. As one of the leading suppliers of gas and petroleum, Russia has a high impact on global energy prices. Due to the conflict with Ukraine, Russia faces sanctions from several countries, resulting in high energy and fuel costs. Also, restricting air freight transportation across Europe and Asia due to the closing of Russian air space has caused increased traffic in northern European ports. Also, the disruptions to rail freight between China and Europe have affected the movement of products. Also, the strained US-China relationship over China’s aggressive approach towards Taiwan threatens global supply chains, as China accounts for about 30% of global manufacturing output . Possible solutions to resolve supply chain issues 1. Embrace innovation Technology has always helped businesses overcome challenges. In 2023, companies need to further their investment in modern technology to mitigate the risks of supply chain issues. Integrating technological innovations like artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), and blockchain into supply chain management can profoundly affect supply chain visibility and efficiency. AI-powered analytics can significantly assist with real-time insights to forecast demand patterns and help optimize inventory levels . IoT solutions can track goods in transit, monitor conditions, and predict maintenance needs. Blockchain technology is trusted for traceability and transparency in supply chain operations. Furthermore, Truein can be instrumental in supply chain workforce management. Its AI-powered attendance management and workforce attendance tracking can help managers improve schedules, enhance productivity, and reduce labor costs. Truei n can be deployed through smartphones as a hardware-less solution, making it a highly cost-effective solution for logistics workforce management. 2. Hold more inventory and diversify product sources One effective way to tackle the supply chain crisis is to keep extra inventory. Businesses now hold more inventory than before because it makes it easier to meet customer needs. You have to research and find what’s the right stock for you. You want to stay within your budget, as it will increase storage costs. Data forecasting can help to predict the demand, and you can hold more inventory accordingly. Also, you cannot rely on a few product sources. As supply chain issues can cause disruption anytime, you need to have alternative sources to ensure a consistent flow of products to meet the market demand. 3. Improve demand forecasting Demand forecasting is an excellent solution to solve the challenges of supply chain management. Supply chain companies and businesses can estimate demand by leveraging advanced analytics and data-driven forecasting models. You should use historical data, market trends, and external factors to analyze the demand behavior in your market and make informed decisions about production, inventory levels, and resource allocation. 4. Work on return rates Product returns have a significant on the supply chain. Customers want their product returns handled as efficiently as product delivery. This is why reverse logistics processes are crucial. To maximize returned goods’ value, businesses must implement clear return policies and streamline return processes. Furthermore, assess returned items to ensure you can reduce product returns and the associated costs. 5. Digitize supply chains Digitization of supply chain processes is a reliable solution for delivery and operational costs issues. By implementing end-to-end digital solutions, businesses can enhance visibility, communication, and collaboration among supply chain partners. Modern supply chain management digital platforms enable real-time tracking, data sharing, and rapid response to changes, helping to streamline operations and reduce manual errors. Conclusion The supply chain issues today are multi-faceted and require an integrated approach combining technological innovation, strategic diversification, and adaptive planning. The top 10 supply chain problems listed here will persist in 2023 and beyond. Businesses need to embrace innovation, analytics, and software solutions to navigate the challenges of supply chain management and ensure resilience in the face of uncertainties. FAQs 1. How did the supply chain issues start? There is no one factor for the supply chain shortages businesses face today. These issues can be attributed to geopolitical tensions, globalization, increased competition, and changing consumer behaviors. 2. Will the supply chain improve in 2023? The challenges mentioned will persist in 2023, and the improvements will depend on how effectively strategies to enhance resilience, agility, and collaboration are implemented. 3. What is the supply chain strategy for 2023? The supply chain strategy for 2023 must involve diversifying sourcing, embracing digital innovations, utilizing forecasting, and building flexibility to navigate various disruptions and uncertainties. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 08, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 08, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 08, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 08, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 08, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Manufacturing Industry HR Challenges and Possible Solutions Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Headcount Planning and Forecasting: How To Create One? Headcount Planning and Forecasting: How To Create One? May 24, 2024 The financial success of any enterprise is intricately tied to the caliber and efficiency of its workforce. Every organization depends on its workforce for productivity, revenue, and efficiency. Adequate staffing, avoiding both overstaffing and understaffing, plays a pivotal role in influencing overall business productivity. Also known as workforce planning, headcount forecasting is a strategic process companies use to predict and manage their workforce needs. It is how you plan your organization’s future needs by doing a headcount analysis and determining where to invest in improvements to meet the existing and new business goals. Headcount planning helps anticipate staffing levels with business demands thus preventing overstaffing or understaffing scenarios. This article underlines how accurate headcount planning and forecasting can assist in optimizing human resources and ensure smooth operations. Table of Contents How Can Organizations Do Headcount Planning? Methods of Headcount Forecasting 1. Headcount Demand Forecasting 2. Headcount Supply Forecasting 3. Recruitment Sales Forecasting Steps to generate a successful headcount plan 1. Figure out business challenges 2. Organize data for Analysis and Insights 3. Analyze data and teams 4. Make your forecasting data agile & Inclusive 5. Use a headcount planning software Four benefits of using headcount forecasting 1. Improved financial planning 2. Maximized employee satisfaction & productivity 3. Hiring the right staff 4. Improves Compliance Regulation How can Truein help in headcount planning and forecasting? Conclusion FAQs 1. What happens if we have poor headcount forecasting? 2. Who is responsible for headcount planning? How Can Organizations Do Headcount Planning? There are 3 primary methods via which organizations can approach the headcount planning process. These are Headcount Demand Forecasting, Headcount Supply Forecasting and Recruitment Sales Forecasting. Lets get into these methods one by one. Methods of Headcount Forecasting 1. Headcount Demand Forecasting One of the most efficient ways to headcount projections is to closely estimate the demand for workers and the skills in the organization. Headcount demand forecasting can de quantitative or qualitative, depending on your approach. Under quantitative headcount forecasting, the companies observe the workload and workforce data to anticipate the number of workers the business needs at any given time. This method utilizes reports from across departments, such as productivity reports, sales forecasts, and expansion plans. Qualitative forecasting is essential for determining workforce’s skills, interests, and aspirations are aligned with the organization’s future goals. 2. Headcount Supply Forecasting Just as with any other resource in the company, human resources must also have a consistent supply to meet the demand. That’s why headcount supply forecasting is also an essential aspect of workforce management, as it estimates the supply of human resources considering internal and external inventory. We must consider internal factors for headcount supply forecasting, including analyzing promotions, transfers, retired employees, etc. In contrast, external human resources supply forecasting depends on the labor market and hiring strategies. 3. Recruitment Sales Forecasting After demand and supply forecasting, the final method in headcount planning and forecasting is recruitment sales forecasting which identifies any gaps between the requirements in the human resources and the hiring strategy. This is essential to ensure skillful and right people are recruited. Now that you understand the methods of headcount planning, you are ready to create your forecasting model. There is no fixed headcount forecasting formula, as several variables differ from business to business. However, here are the concrete steps for a successful headcount planning process. Steps to generate a successful headcount plan 1. Figure out business challenges First, you must evaluate the organization’s strategic goals and challenges that impact workforce needs. If you are not sure how to identify the business challenges, ask some critical questions: How can you utilize technology to manage the workforce? How your competitor’s offerings and hiring strategies have changed? How your end customer requirements are evolving, and what can you do to meet these expectations? Are the regulatory changes expected to challenge your business? What changes do you need to meet your future growth goals? 2. Organize data for Analysis and Insights You must generate insights based on critical business operation data analysis for headcount planning. You must gather and organize relevant data, such as historical headcount and turnover rates. Depending on your business operations, there will be several data points such as revenue goals, budget, projected spending, position requirements, number of employees, employee skills ratings, employee salary, etc. Your headcount planning process will be affected by such data points. 3. Analyze data and teams The data you capture in the above step, along with the individual team structure, should be analyzed to make decisions regarding workforce management. Analysis at this step help managers identify the human resource requirements, such as ensuring enough budget is available to support the workforce, proactively identifying hiring challenges, revealing any skill gap issues, and monitoring staff retention in different departments. Also, this step involves ensuring that all managers have appropriate resources to manage their teams to perform their duties effectively. 4. Make your forecasting data agile & Inclusive The end goal of a headcount forecasting model is to ensure that the organization has the right number of employees with the right skill at the right position. This is why a flexible and adaptable forecasting model must be in place that accommodates changing business conditions. If your approach is agile, iterative, and inclusive, you can use the same headcount planning and forecasting model for several years. Just assess your headcount forecasting strategy regularly to know what’s working and what adjustments are required. If implemented correctly, headcount planning can facilitate the growth and development of an organization. 5. Use a headcount planning software Rather than using spreadsheets, a headcount planning software can help manage headcount effectively. A headcount planning tool is accessible to all key stakeholders of the workforce planning department. HR, Finance, Talent and budget owners i.e. team leads and hiring managers can easily use this tool. As headcount is one of the biggest expenses of any organization, one must invest in a headcount planning software like workday, ChartHop, etc. Here are some of the benefits of utilizing headcount forecasting for your business. Four benefits of using headcount forecasting 1. Improved financial planning Headcount forecasting is one of the best cost-saving methods for any business. Think about it, how useful it will be if the company knows what roles in which department need new staff is required. Also, proper headcount planning and forecasting help you understand the salary and compensation changes per the business goals. You can significantly minimize the friction in project management as departmental budgets are handled more effectively. Financial troubles are one of the significant reasons why projects are delayed; with proper headcount forecasting this risk can be mitigated. 2. Maximized employee satisfaction & productivity Managing shifts becomes much easier when you clearly view the workload and workforce. With headcount forecasting, you can balance the human capital with business goals to create a healthy work-life balance for workers. It will keep them engaged, and the retention rate will increase. Also, it results in higher employee satisfaction as they can give their best at work, boosting their morale. Optimal headcount also helps manage a well-rested workforce. Employees have the right amount of workload, which makes them more productive. Companies can compensate existing employees better rather than spend on hiring more workers. 3. Hiring the right staff With a suitable headcount planning model, you can ensure the hiring requirements and growth strategy are distinct. Forecasting provides visibility of the current workforce, workload, and future change projections. This data can be used to hire the right staff for the positions or roles expected to open in any department. It also helps to understand what skills will be required for these roles ensuring that the right talent is available within the internal candidate pool to meet the requirements when they arise. 4. Improves Compliance Regulation Business operations have several challenges, but the most complications arise from compliance regulations. With so many protocols, mandates, rules, and procedures, you need headcount planning to proactively know what legal hurdles a business can face in its growth path. Headcount planning helps deal with issues related to minimum wages, overtime benefits, severance packages, etc. These requirements are under labor rules and regulations that every organization must adhere to mandatorily. How can Truein help in headcount planning and forecasting? Truein is a complete attendance and time-tracking software that can facilitate headcount planning. Its AI-backed algorithms entirely automate workforce attendance management. Truein is a hardware-less face recognition attendance software that can prevent time theft activities like buddy punching. It makes headcount forecasting easier by providing insightful reports regarding attendance, leave, overtime, etc. The data plays an essential role in productivity evaluation and forecasting demand for the workforce. By offering all the workforce attendance and time management data in one place, Truein assists in decision-making, such as headcount budgets and work schedules. Learn more about Truein here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Headcount forecasting is essential for organizations to create a winning strategy for business growth without ignoring the needs of employees. There are three main methods of the headcount planning process that organizations can use for efficient headcount implementation. Without proper headcount planning, no business can meet its operation goals, project growth prospects, or expand to new markets. That’s why you need a comprehensive headcount forecasting methods which are regularly assessed and updated. FAQs 1. What happens if we have poor headcount forecasting? Poor headcount forecasting can wreak havoc for any organization as it can harm its operations, financial health, and employee morale. It results in understaffing, and there needs to be more employees to meet workload demands. It increases workloads for existing staff, causing burnout and productivity issues. Poor headcount forecasting can cause overstaffing, straining resources, increase labor costs, and hinder operational efficiency. 2. Who is responsible for headcount planning? No one department or person is responsible for headcount planning, and it is a collaborative effort involving multiple departments and roles within an organization. Typically, the main ones in headcount planning are human resources, department heads and managers, finance teams, senior leaders, IT and tech support teams. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Forecasting - Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Retail Time and Attendance »  					11 Strategies To Maximize Retail Productivity and Efficiency 11 Strategies To Maximize Retail Productivity and Efficiency May 20, 2024 Retail business is fiercely competitive, and employee productivity is one of the critical aspects contributing to this sector’s success. The more efficient your staff is, the higher will be your retail productivity. Enhanced productivity within the grocery and retail chains leads to better customer service, increased profitability, and the ability to stay ahead of the competition. When improving productivity and efficiency is not just a goal but a necessity for survival and growth, you need expert tips to manage your workforce. This post shares 11 practical strategies to boost retail productivity within grocery and retail chains. Let’s get started. Table of Contents 11 Ways to Improve Retail Productivity 1. Ensure multi-channel communication 2. Define roles and responsibilities 3. Put in place flexible scheduling 4. Use employee rostering 5. Train your staff and identify crisis point 6. Work on store layout 7. Ensure the right product assortment 8. Work on upselling and cross-selling strategies 9. Digitize attendance 10. Conduct timely meet-ups 11. Integrate technology to lessen their burden How Truein time and attendance software can help with improving retail productivity? Conclusion FAQs 1. How can you be more productive in retail? 2. What is the key to retail success? 3. How do you run a retail store efficiently? 11 Ways to Improve Retail Productivity 1. Ensure multi-channel communication Any retail business is entirely dependent on teamwork and communication between the staff. With so many workers, store employees, management, and other departments must have effective communication channels. Lack of communication can easily lead to trivial issues such as missed announcements, confusion in processes, and mismanagement of logistics. A way to ensure continuous and reliable communication among workers, supervisors, and managers is to establish multi-channel communication. Software tools like a messaging app or a retail management system with internal emails ensure information flows seamlessly. This helps keep everyone aligned with the retail store’s objectives and current initiatives. 2. Define roles and responsibilities Another way to ensure retail efficiency is to clarify staff jobs, roles, and responsibilities. It streamlines retail operations as every employee clearly understands their position within the organization. Also, retailers must keep reviewing the roles and responsibilities of the employees to ensure that their contributions align with broader and changing business needs. Well-defined roles and responsibilities help prevent overlap, confusion, and wasted effort. It also encourages accountability as employees understand their responsibilities and are more likely to take ownership of their tasks. 3. Put in place flexible scheduling One of the unique traits of a retail business is that it often experiences fluctuations in customer traffic throughout the day and week. To accommodate such changes effectively, retailers must consider implementing flexible scheduling options. It helps meet the demand, and flexible work schedules can also adapt to employees’ personal preferences, such as part-time schedules. With flexible scheduling, you can ensure the correct number of staff members are present during peak hours. Also, there is an increased demand for work-life balance across all industries. Today, 71% of workers have more flexible schedules over higher pay. As such, flexible scheduling improves retail productivity and enhances employee morale. When done right, a flexible schedule can prevent overstaffing and understaffing issues. 4. Use employee rostering Employee rostering is another strategy to improve retail productivity. To successfully implement shift scheduling, you will need software like Truein that can help create efficient schedules. Such tools have comprehensive features that help optimize staff allocation. With such a staff scheduling system at your disposal, you can ensure that your retail store has the correct number of employees scheduled at any given time, reducing labor costs and improving customer service. Moreover, employee rostering software creates schedules considering variables like employee skills and preferences to ensure that the most qualified individuals are assigned to specific tasks. This improves productivity and efficiency. 5. Train your staff and identify crisis point A common misconception in the retail sector is that given the low skill threshold, staff in the retail and grocery sectors do not need training. On the contrary, practical training is a cornerstone of retail productivity. With continuous training and development programs, stores can ensure that their employees are informed and equipped with the skills to handle various situations. You must look beyond initial onboarding to ensure your retail business workers are always productive and efficient. Retailers should offer regular training sessions to address evolving customer expectations and industry trends. Additionally, it would help if you prepared the workers for potential crisis points such as busy periods, high-traffic days, or inventory shortages. It is necessary that your workers can keep the stores running and minimize disruptions. 6. Work on store layout While this may not be true, the store layout significantly impacts customer flow and employee productivity. Marketing will get customers to come to the store, but once customers are within the store, customer service will keep them coming for more. A practical store layout improves customer experience and retail efficiency by facilitating efficient stocking and restocking. Big grocery and retail chains can use technology such as data from heatmaps and customer behavior analysis to make informed decisions about product placement and aisle organization. Furthermore, keep reviewing and optimizing the store layout regularly to ensure that it enhances the customer experience and improves efficiency. 7. Ensure the right product assortment The success of a retail store also depends on providing customers with enough choices to keep them engaged, yet only a few options to overwhelm. This balance is a crucial aspect of enhancing retail productivity. It would help if you offered the right product assortment to meet customer needs and preferences effectively. A practical way to achieve this goal is to leverage data analytics to gain insights into your customer’s purchasing habits and preferences. When you know which products are popular and what trends are emerging, you can stay ahead of the competition curve. Instead of increasing the categories of products, focus on making the available categories deeper. For instance, your store might have food items such as canned goods, frozen meat, etc. Instead of including more brands for the same items, expand the category by including different types of canned goods. However, there are more feasible options for stores that sell apparel. For such retail stores, the focus must be on keeping abreast of seasonal changes and emerging trends in your industry. For example, offering winter clothing during the cold months or featuring trendy products can attract customers looking for the latest items. 8. Work on upselling and cross-selling strategies Every retail business must be aware of the power of upselling and cross-selling. When done right, your retail store can increase sales and improve profits. Training your employees to identify upselling and cross-selling opportunities can significantly boost revenue while lowering customer acquisition costs. Allow your staff to use suggestive selling techniques, but warn them against being pushy or too aggressive. You can create incentives to motivate employees to excel in this sales aspect. By maximizing the value of each customer transaction, you can significantly increase profitability. 9. Digitize attendance Well, time theft activities like buddy punching cost millions of dollars to the industry, and it is apparent that more modern attendance-keeping solutions are required. To maintain retail efficiency, you should digitize staff attendance at all your stores. You can use a biometric attendance system for retail stores . Know the benefits of using biometric attendance system for retail stores here . Time and attendance software like Truein offers automation of timekeeping, which is much more efficient and faster than manual methods such as paper timesheets or manual entry. These methods are prone to errors and are time-consuming, affecting retail productivity. Digitizing attendance using dedicated software like Truein streamlines the process. It incorporates face recognition, making it significantly harder for employees to clock in for one another. 10. Conduct timely meet-ups Regular team meetings foster effective communication. It is essential for maintaining employee morale and addressing their concerns promptly. Timely meet-ups provide a dedicated forum for discussing goals, objectives, and store policies or procedures changes. Meet-ups can also serve as a platform for recognizing and celebrating employees’ achievements and milestones. Retail managers can ensure that all team members are on the same page regarding store objectives, customer service standards, and performance expectations with regular meetings. 11. Integrate technology to lessen their burden Manual tools and techniques create overhead for store employees and managers. Integrating technology is a crucial strategy for reducing employee and management administrative burdens. It brings much-needed automation to handle repetitive and time-consuming tasks, such as inventory management, order processing, and payroll calculations. Advanced analytics tools can provide actionable insights into customer behavior, sales trends, and inventory management. Retailers can use technology for employee empowerment, customer engagement, and impactful data-driven decisions. How Truein time and attendance software can help with improving retail productivity? Truein is a centralized and foolproof time & attendance solution for the retail industry. It offers comprehensive solutions for time tracking and attendance tracking utilizing AI and face recognition technology. It provides real-time visibility into employee attendance patterns. Retail store managers can monitor attendance remotely, ensuring employees arrive on time and adhere to the created schedules. Any deviations or absenteeism can be addressed promptly. Truein easily integrates with most payroll software, which ensures accurate payroll processing. It helps retail businesses prevent wage disputes and minimizes the risk of legal issues related to payroll discrepancies. Additionally, it supports 70+ customizable policies so you can ensure compliance with labor laws and regulations governing work hours, breaks, and overtime for every staff category. Learn more about using Truein for retail business . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion For any grocery and retail chain, improving productivity and efficiency is crucial for long-term success in such an extremely competitive sector. By implementing the shared 11 strategies and leveraging technology solutions like Truein’s time and attendance software , retailers can provide better customer experiences, employee satisfaction, and ultimately thrive in a competitive market. FAQs 1. How can you be more productive in retail? The only way to increase retail productivity is to focus on efficient staffing, employee training, effective communication, and optimizing store layout. Embracing modern solutions like time and attendance software to streamline workforce management will also help. 2. What is the key to retail success? Optimizing operations, hiring and retaining skilled staff, providing exceptional customer experiences, and staying competitive with pricing and product assortment are essential for retail success. 3. How do you run a retail store efficiently? Several aspects of running a retail store efficiently include careful workforce management, inventory control, data-driven decision-making, impactful marketing, and exception services. Leveraging technology can significantly aid in these efforts. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Enhance Manpower Productivity and Efficiency: Discover 9 Effective Strategies 10 Construction Productivity and Efficiency Strategies To Improve Labor Output How To Increase Productivity and Efficiency in Manufacturing Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Workforce Management & Optimization »  					Security Workforce Management Security Workforce Management May 28, 2024 For security companies, the smooth functioning of operational processes and a reliable workforce are critical aspects. With the rapidly changing threat landscape and increasing client expectations, no security firm can depend on manual workforce management. Security companies are labor-intensive, so automation has become inevitable for their management. That’s why security workforce management is necessary to support operations. It ensures that the right kind of people, with the right skills, are given the right security tasks at the right time. You must know the importance of security workforce management to run your security company smoothly. Let’s discover how a security workforce management platform can help your business reach its full potential. Table of Contents What is security workforce management? The importance of security workforce management Benefits of using the Security Workforce Management Platform 1. Supervise your frontline security officers easily 2. Reduce administrative burdens 3. Customizable Software according to the business requirements 4. Get accurate payroll data from WFM Features of Security Workforce Management Software 1. Automated Attendance Checking & Rostering 2. Manage absenteeism and time-off of security personnel 3. Facilitate quick onboarding of security personnel 4. Overtime management 5. Affordable and Scalable Conclusion FAQs 1. Why do you need security workforce management software? 2. What are the responsibilities of a Security Manager? 3. Why use a security workforce management system? 4. How Truein automated attendance system can help with security management? What is security workforce management? Security Workforce Management refers to the strategic planning, coordination, and optimization of security personnel and resources within an organization. It is part of overall workforce management to optimize the productivity of the employees. With the help of security workforce management software, security managers can strategically schedule shifts and track attendance of security personnel. Effective management of the security workforce ensures that businesses can mitigate risks to maintain a secure environment. Security workforce management encircles more than just employees and includes the protection of assets and facilities. Effective management of the security workforce ensures that businesses can mitigate risks to maintain a secure environment and respond effectively to incidents every time. The importance of security workforce management Security workforce management software tools enable companies to get an insight into crucial business metrics, which further helps managers in correctly scheduling tasks to the workforce. It eases the process of decision-making in task scheduling. The insights help managers know the number of employees needed for security or a particular job on a given day, week, or month. It also helps to monitor the employees’ performance and productivity. Benefits of using the Security Workforce Management Platform 1. Supervise your frontline security officers easily A security workforce management software ena bles proper attendance tracking of frontline security officers. With Geo-fencing technology of the security WFM, employees can mark attendance when onsite.  This is one of the reasons why more and more companies are using security workforce management software to micro-manage their security teams. 2. Reduce administrative burdens An efficient security WFM can unload administrative burden coming on HR and admin staff. By automating attendance and scheduling shifts, managers can focus on other important tasks within the organization. Also, a security WFM brings co-ordination amongst the team and managers and eliminates the need for manual reporting. This way, a security WFM helps maintain a productive workforce and assures the right labor mix is available all-the-time. 3. Customizable Software according to the business requirements You are not limited to using available security workforce management software; customization options are available. A platform designed for security workforce management is a user-friendly solution that can be tailored to specific needs to ensure that security operations align with the organization’s unique demands. With the aid of custom security WFM, managers can optimize workforce utilization. They’re able to make more informed decisions by scheduling shifts to the right employee at the right time. Whether you want to manage the security workforce at a single location or track across multiple locations, geofencing solutions can make it possible to do so. 4. Get accurate payroll data from WFM With the advent of security WFM, employees can view their payroll data and ask for any revisions in case the. Where manually handling all payroll data is difficult, a security WFM can ensure the right calculation of salary needed to credit to the employee’s account. Also, with security WFM, it is easy to keep check with regulations and compliance. An automated software can easily and effectively keep checks in place to ensure regulatory requirements are included in payroll processing. A security management company must adopt a WFM that manages their employee’s time and deploy the labour force efficiently. These are reasons to consider security management software to improve your business’s efficiency, productivity, and sustainability. Before you choose any software or platform, you should know what features to look for in software. Features of Security Workforce Management Software 1. Automated Attendance Checking & Rostering The software you choose must automate attendance checking and also manage worker’s shifts. With a security workforce management system, software companies don’t have to manage attendance manually. This greatly reduces errors and administrative overhead, along with optimizing the roster. By using all the available data, the software can help in generating optimized work schedules, taking into account factors like the availability of employees and regulatory requirements. With real-time visibility of the schedules and attendance data, managers can assign the right personnel to specific shifts, improving overall workforce management efficiency. 2. Manage absenteeism and time-off of security personnel A security WFM can also be used to manage absenteeism and time-off requests of security workers. The absenteeism management feature of security WFM offers data-driven evaluations to HR staff and managers. It provides a comprehensive feedback loop to admin managers. This in turn, also improves employee productivity, thereby, team productivity. With a robust security WFM, employees can keep check over their time-offs and ensure that they’re adhering to absence management policy in the first place. 3. Facilitate quick onboarding of security personnel Does your organization need to hire frequently? Being a labor-intensive nature of security business, this business might need to hire employees frequently. Be it a last-minute onboarding, a security WFM can cater the need of frequently adding new joinees to the attendance system and payroll. It does save time and efforts of HR personnel, especially in the case of frequently changing staff. Also, a security WFM quickly captures all the necessary information of a candidate by way of a government ID, making the recruitment process easier. 4. Overtime management When you can automate attendance of the security personnel with GPS and Geofencing, you can ensure that they are paid for the hours they put in. This significantly improves overtime management and prevents unauthorized overtime. You can set alerts for overtime management to ensure fair compensation and optimize resource allocation based on actual needs. 5. Affordable and Scalable A key benefit of deploying security workforce management software is its affordability and scalability. Manual workforce management can incur high costs for security firms, given the labor-intensive nature of these organizations. A software tool offers cost-effective solutions to reduce operational expenses associated with manual workforce management significantly. Also, as your business grows, a security workforce management platform can readily accommodate the demand for the management of increasing personnel and operations. Whether you expand to new locations or adjust the security strategies, the software can easily adapt to changing needs of the business. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Security workforce management software plays a crucial role in managing attendance of security workers and maintaining productivity amongst them. Choose software with comprehensive features such as attendance management, rostering, overtime management, etc., to run your security business at its peak performance. Choose software with comprehensive features such as attendance management, rostering, live tracking, overtime management , etc., to run your security business at its peak performance. FAQs 1. Why do you need security workforce management software? It would help if you had security workforce management software to manage attendance, avoid buddy punching, scheduling shifts amongst security workers, etc. Also, security workers can solely access their attendance schedule which leads to improved transparency and efficiency. 2. What are the responsibilities of a Security Manager? A security manager within an organization is responsible for planning, implementing, and overseeing security measures, personnel, and protocols to ensure the safety and security of the organization’s assets, employees, and facilities. 3. Why use a security workforce management system? You require a security workforce management system to improve coordination amongst employees and the employer. 4. How Truein automated attendance system can help with security management? Truein is an AI-powered, fully automated attendance management solution for security companies. Its hardwareless and cloud-based deployment can be put on each security personnel’s phone and integrated into the central security workforce management software. Truein uses some of the most advanced algorithms for GPS geofencing which makes attendance tracking and overtime management an effortless exercise. Its face recognition attendance checking prevents time theft and buddy punching along with accurate attendance tracking, overtime management, and shift scheduling. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Logistics Workforce Management Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours 8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours May 27, 2024 Tracking employee hours is a fundamental aspect of workforce management. Whether a startup or an enterprise, every business requires effective methods to keep track of work hours and pay. It is the only way to ensure your payroll processing is accurate and you comply with labor laws. When you have a comprehensive employee time tracking system in place, it helps managers understand how employees manage their time and fosters accountability within the workforce. This article explores the best way to track employee hours, the benefits of tracking work hours, and key considerations when selecting an app to track work hours. Table of Contents 8 best ways to track employee hours 1. Pen & paper-based employee hour tracking 2. Manual Excel timesheets 3. Mobile Apps 4. Biometric Clock-In (Fingerprint) 5. Browser plug-ins and URL tracking 6. Time-tracking software 7. Using a time clock station or kiosk 8. Physical time clocks or punch-in tools Benefits of Keeping Track of Work Hours 1. Ensures payroll accuracy 2. Ensures compliance with labor laws and time-off policies 3. Improves understanding of where employee time goes 4. Encourage accountability What to Look for When Buying a Tool for Tracking Employee Hours? 1. Multi-device support: 2. Manager-friendly features: 3. Employee-friendly settings: 4. Easy integrations: How Truein Can Help with Tracking Employee Hours? Conclusion FAQs 1. Which businesses should use a kiosk to track employee hours? 2. What should you look for in an employee time-tracking app? 8 best ways to track employee hours 1. Pen & paper-based employee hour tracking Pen and paper-based employee hour tracking refers to manual time and attendance keeping on paper forms or using time cards. Manual methods are the simplest way to keep track of work hours and pay and are also straightforward and low-cost. However, this method is prone to human error, which leads to inaccuracies and potential payroll disputes. Also, some employees can intentionally inflate their work hours, increasing costs. Additionally, maintaining and organizing physical records takes time and effort. 2. Manual Excel timesheets Microsoft Excel timesheets remain one of the most widely used manual time and attendance-keeping methods. Employees enter their clock-in and clock-out times into a spreadsheet, and managers use the data to determine total hours worked and overtime. While Excel timesheets are more organized than pen and paper, employees still need to enter data, making them prone to errors manually. Manual Excel timesheets could be more efficient and convenient for businesses with large workforces. Also, tracking changes or revisions can be challenging when working. 3. Mobile Apps Another best way to track employee hours is the use of mobile applications. Many free and paid mobile apps are available to track clock-in and out times. Premium time and attendance software like Truein offers accompanying mobile apps that can be installed on workers’ smartphones. Using the mobile app to track work hours offers flexibility, allowing employees to record their hours from anywhere. Also, smartphones have built-in GPS sensors that enable an employee time tracking system to offer features such as GPS-enabled geofencing. Truein app to track work hours utilizes AI algorithms and offers features like face recognition that prevent buddy punching. 4. Biometric Clock-In (Fingerprint) Biometric time tracking methods , such as fingerprint recognition, offer high accuracy and security over manual methods. Fingerprint biometric time punching machines use unique biometric data (e.g., fingerprint) to clock in and out. The use of biometric solutions is an efficient way to track work hours. It prevents buddy bunching, ensuring that the person clocking in is the authorized employee. Biometric clock-in methods are especially effective for organizations that prioritize security and accuracy. 5. Browser plug-ins and URL tracking For industries such as IT, data processing, and HR administration that employ remote workers primarily using computers, browser plug-ins, and URL tracking tools are the best ways to track employee hours. Employers can use these tools to monitor the websites and applications employees access during work hours. It helps monitor and track work hours and ensures that employees are focused on productive tasks rather than non-work-related activities. However, this method is not a complete time and attendance tracking solution because employees can step away from their computers without logging out and still get paid for the hours not worked. 6. Time-tracking software It would help to have time-tracking software like Truein for complete time and attendance tracking. Such an app to track work hours comes with comprehensive features in addition to clock in/out. A time tracking software is a complete suite of tools that include scheduling, project tracking, reporting, leave management, and integrations with other business tools. Truein is a cloud app that automates attendance tracking, significantly reducing errors and providing detailed insights into employee productivity. It is an ideal employee time tracking system, especially beneficial for businesses with larger workforces or complex attendance requirements. Whether you have full-time employees or a contractual workforce, Truein is the best way to track employee hours. 7. Using a time clock station or kiosk Time clock stations or kiosks are physical devices at the workplace where employees can punch in and out using a card or badge. It can be a good way to track employee hours especially for industries with a high volume of on-site employees, such as IT services, construction, etc. These devices maintain a physical record of attendance and offer convenience, but they require initial investment in hardware and are usually high maintenance. Also most time clock stations or kiosk are hardware oriented ie requires biometric or cards to register in and out times which has several shortcomings. Biometrics might not function properly, workers may indulge in buddy punching, etc An alternate solution is Truein’s kiosk app which eliminates such issues with automated, face-recognition based technology that captures attendance accurately and provides insights in far greater detail. High level data such as number of staff working at any point of time, their location details, leave data, hours their clock in/out time, etc. can be directly accessed from the dashboard which can be utilized for shift management and improving workforce productivity. 8. Physical time clocks or punch-in tools Physical time clocks are similar to kiosk stations but have a basic functionality. Badge and magnetic stripe readers are punch-in tools that offer a low-cost time-tracking solution. However, the choice of physical time clocks and punch-in tools is restrictive and does not possess advanced features of modern time-tracking solutions such as Truein. Each of these employee time-tracking systems has pros and cons, and the best way to track employee hours depends on the specific needs and preferences of the organization. Benefits of Keeping Track of Work Hours 1. Ensures payroll accuracy Accurate time tracking is the fundamental requirement for payroll accuracy. When you meticulously keep track of work hours, HR has access to precise data for calculating salaries and wages. This accuracy reduces the risk of overpayments or underpayments, a significant reason for employee dissatisfaction. It can also lead to potential legal issues, so accurate work hours tracking is essential, as it mitigates the risks involved. Additionally, accurate payroll processing enhances employees’ trust in the company when they receive their earnings promptly and accurately. 2. Ensures compliance with labor laws and time-off policies Accurate time tracking is also crucial for compliance with labor laws and adherence to time-off policies. A company must adhere to the provisions related to overtime, break times, and required rest periods. With accurate work hours tracking, organizations can ensure they are meeting these legal requirements. It is also essential to manage time-off policies, such as vacation days and paid time off (PTO), preventing unauthorized time-off. 3. Improves understanding of where employee time goes Tracking employee hours gives you valuable insights into how workers allocate their work hours. This insight can be particularly beneficial for project management, resource allocation, and workforce optimization. Managers can identify tasks and projects’ time requirements and the areas where productivity improvements are required. 4. Encourage accountability Keeping track of work hours and pay encourages accountability among workers as they know they are being monitored and recorded. They are more likely to adhere to their work schedules and responsibilities. Time tracking also helps identify patterns of attendance and punctuality, allowing managers to recognize employees who consistently meet their work commitments. Conversely, it also helps identify absenteeism. What to Look for When Buying a Tool for Tracking Employee Hours? The choice of an app to track work hours can be daunting when there are so many solutions. Your focus must be on the most critical factors that decide the robustness and use of an employee time-tracking system. Here are the features to look for: 1. Multi-device support: It is essential to choose a solution that supports multiple devices, such as smartphones, desktops, and physical time clocks, to accommodate various work scenarios, such as remote work sites and distributed workforce. 2. Manager-friendly features: Any app to track work hours you choose must allow managers to monitor and analyze employee hours, generate insightful reports, and manage schedules efficiently. It should also have customizable policies such as overtime rules, break duration, and holiday pay to suit the needs of different types of workers – full-time, part-time, temporary, and casual. 3. Employee-friendly settings: The tools included in the time tracking software should be user-friendly for employees. They should be able to clock in and out and access their time records easily. The app must also be easy to install. 4. Easy integrations: Before deciding on software, ensure it integrates seamlessly with other software, such as payroll and HR systems, that your business uses to streamline processes. How Truein Can Help with Tracking Employee Hours? Truein is a modern, efficient, and accurate time and attendance solution with comprehensive features such as facial recognition, GPS tracking, shift scheduling, reporting, and seamless integration with payroll software. Its AI-backed algorithm ensures reliable and compliant time tracking. With facial recognition, businesses can prevent buddy punching, improve accountability, and enhance workforce management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion The choice of the best way to track employee hours depends on the size of the workforce your business employs. A comprehensive employee time tracking system like Truein ensures payroll accuracy, complies with labor laws, gain insights into workforce productivity, and encourages accountability in the workplace. Truein’s advanced features and integration capabilities align with every organization’s needs, ensuring efficient and reliable time tracking. FAQs 1. Which businesses should use a kiosk to track employee hours? Such time-tracking solutions suit businesses with on-site employees working at a dedicated physical location. They offer a more secure and easily accessible way to clock in and out for such companies. 2. What should you look for in an employee time-tracking app? The app to track the work hours you pick should offer comprehensive features apart from accuracy; it should also provide custom policies, integration capabilities, advanced reporting options, and user-friendliness for both employees and managers. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) How to Track Employee Absences? How To Track Employee Time and Attendance? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? May 31, 2024 Timeliness is of essence for commercial cleaning businesses because an on-time janitorial company is likely to get recurring business and word-of-mouth recommendations. Cleaning companies are also faced with unique challenges as they need to manage distributed employees across multiple locations. Having time and attendance software to automate staff tracking and improve workforce productivity is thus crucial. In this article, we will explore the importance of time and attendance software for any janitorial business, and how it can be used for staff scheduling to ensure the efficient running of the business operations. Table of Contents Challenges of managing cleaning company employees Advantages of Using Time and Attendance Software for Janitorial Companies 1. Reduces manual pen & paperwork 2. Increases workplace efficiency 3. Managing multiple customer sites through geo-fencing 4. Simplify staff scheduling 5. Simplify handling time off and absence management 6. Faster payroll processing Six things to consider before buying time and attendance software for cleaning companies 1. Remote access 2. Easy installation 3. Option to create varied staff policies 4. Easy task scheduling 5. Easy streamlining of the payroll process 6. Comprehensive reporting and analytics How Truein time and attendance software can help janitorial and cleaning companies? Conclusion FAQs 1. How is janitorial scheduling software easier to use than manual paperwork? 2. How does GPS help cleaning companies record their employees' time and attendance? Challenges of managing cleaning company employees Manual time tracking through timesheets isn’t ideal for janitorial companies as they are not accurate and reliable. Besides tracking cleaning staff at remote locations, managing their schedule and dealing with high staff turnover is another challenge. Janitorial and cleaning businesses also employ many temporary and part-time workers and it can be demanding to manage contractual workers. It becomes even more complicated when contract employees work remotely, as it is difficult to ensure they are where they are supposed to be and their hours are accurately recorded. This is why janitorial scheduling software is essential for tracking, analyzing, and optimizing business operations. Let’s explore the benefits of janitorial time and attendance software in detail. Advantages of Using Time and Attendance Software for Janitorial Companies 1. Reduces manual pen & paperwork Manual time and attendance keeping is time-consuming and prone to errors. Furthermore, it produces a lot of paperwork for payroll as managers need to feed data and calculate payable hours manually. Adopting an automated time-tracking solution can eliminate pen and paper. Cleaning staff can use mobile apps to clock in and out. Such automation removes the risk of human error, such as incorrect entries or missing records. Your business becomes more efficient as software saves administrative time that can be better utilized for core business tasks thus increasing productivity. 2. Increases workplace efficiency It saves time as your staff can start working promptly without waiting to punch in or fill timesheets. This reduces idle time at the beginning and end of shifts, allowing employees to be more productive. Janitorial time tracking software provides real-time access to data on employee attendance, making it easier for managers to allocate resources and adjust work schedules as needed. The streamlined operations and minimized downtime enhance the overall efficiency of janitorial companies. 3. Managing multiple customer sites through geo-fencing Geo-fencing technology creates a virtual boundary around each work site. The software automatically records their location and working hours when employees enter or exit these predefined work zones. Managers no longer have to track the location of staff multiple times in real time; the janitorial time tracking app will do it for them. By enforcing the presence of employees at the right location at the right time, geofencing enhances accountability and ensures workers are paid accurately for the actual hours worked at each site. 4. Simplify staff scheduling A janitorial scheduling software simplifies the creation and management of staff schedules, a critical aspect of cleaning businesses. Scheduling features in the software help easily assign shifts, track overtime, and ensure adequate coverage. Furthermore, the software can help map employee availability, skills, and preferences for generating schedules thus eliminating the highly inefficient manual scheduling process. Staff also can apply for leaves and time offs within the system and these reports can be pulled automatically at the end of each day to evaluate workforce efficiency. 5. Simplify handling time off and absence management Your staff can submit time-off requests digitally, and managers can review and approve them within the software. With such automation, the efficiency of leave management improves as there is no paperwork or risk of lost requests. It also monitors time off and absence for each employee, ensuring fair and consistent application of company policies. 6. Faster payroll processing The efficiency and simplification of various aspects of time and attendance recording translates into faster and error-free payroll processing. Janitorial scheduling software like Truein can readily integrate with payroll software, eliminating the need for manual data entry and reconciliation. It reduces payroll processing time and payroll errors. Faster payroll processing ensures that employees are paid accurately and on time, which boosts their morale. For these benefits, you have to make sure you choose the right software for your cleaning business. Here are the factors to consider. Six things to consider before buying time and attendance software for cleaning companies 1. Remote access As cleaning businesses have operations disbursed over multiple remote sites, janitorial time and attendance software must have remote access. A comprehensive time and attendance software for cleaning businesses must offer a user-friendly web or mobile app interface to access real-time data from anywhere. It ensures that managers can manage their workforce far more effectively by monitoring employee attendance, making schedule adjustments, and tracking time remotely. 2. Easy installation The janitorial time tracking app must be easy to install so the cleaning staff can install it on their phones without hassle. The software should also be easily integrated with existing systems, such as payroll or HR management tools. Easy installation minimizes the need for extensive technical support or training. It ensures a smooth transition to the new time and attendance tracking system. 3. Option to create varied staff policies Cleaning companies have diverse staffing needs. A janitorial workforce could include a mix of temporary, part-time, and permanent workers. As these employees are not regulated under the same time and attendance rules, a flexible janitorial time and attendance software can help in creating and applying varied staff policies. Managers can develop policies, including unique pay rates and overtime thresholds, and modify rules easily using the software. 4. Easy task scheduling Task scheduling is crucial for cleaning companies to allocate work appropriately based on a worker’s skills and availability. This is why your chosen software should provide intuitive scheduling features that allow managers to create and adjust task assignments easily. Easy task scheduling ensures the right employees are assigned to the right jobs at the correct times. 5. Easy streamlining of the payroll process The ultimate goal of adopting a janitorial time and attendance software is to improve efficiency and productivity. The software you choose should seamlessly integrate with your payroll system to achieve this. It must enable payroll administrators to export accurate and detailed time and attendance data directly to the payroll software , eliminating the need for manual data entry or reconciliation. Such integration makes payroll processing faster and more accurate, increasing employee satisfaction and compliance with labor laws. 6. Comprehensive reporting and analytics To improve business revenue and profitability, decision-makers need insights into the workforce’s performance and operational efficiency. The time and attendance software should offer a range of customizable reports that provide data on attendance trends, labor costs, and employee productivity. The Analytics capability of the software will help you identify areas for improvement, such as optimizing schedules or reducing overtime expenses. How Truein time and attendance software can help janitorial and cleaning companies? Truein is an innovative janitorial time and attendance software with AI-backed technology. A cloud-based solution, it is easy to deploy at multiple remote sites. Truein’s comprehensive tracking capabilities with GPS geofencing give managers remote access to various sites from a single dashboard. It is a hardware-less solution that is easy to install. A simple app installation is all you need to onboard workers to the new system. It offers policy flexibility and comes with over 70 customizable policy templates. Task scheduling, payroll integration, and robust reporting capabilities are some other features that ensure that Truein aligns with the specific needs and challenges of the cleaning industry. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Time and attendance software are indispensable tools for janitorial and cleaning companies. A comprehensive janitorial time-tracking software can help overcome the challenges of managing the workforce. Furthermore, software offers various benefits, such as simplified scheduling, faster payroll processing, and remote access. FAQs 1. How is janitorial scheduling software easier to use than manual paperwork? Janitorial scheduling software automates the process of creating and managing staff schedules, eliminating the need for pen and paperwork and reducing the time and effort required to create schedules. It also minimizes scheduling errors and allows for quick adjustments when needed. 2. How does GPS help cleaning companies record their employees' time and attendance? When integrated into time and attendance software, GPS technology records employee’s location when they clock-in. This helps track employee’s location and ensures that employees are present at the site when they should be at the right time. GPS helps make time and attendance records accurate. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form