Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? July 23, 2024 For the success of any business, employees must value time and discipline. This success is possible only when there are combined efforts of all the teams working towards a common goal. However, suppose your organization is struggling with late attendance issues. In that case, it is important to set strict guidelines and convey HR policy for late coming to employees. Attendance issues can cause companies a lot. According to the CDC, every year, companies lose $1,685 per employee due to attendance issues . Running a few minutes behind once in a while is common. It happens to most of us, but if it becomes a habit, it can significantly affect the company’s bottom line. As an HR professional, you must create a late-coming policy for employees. This article is for you if you are unfamiliar with creating a late-coming policy. We will discuss how to write a late-coming policy for employees that’s fair and easy to implement. Table of Contents What makes an excellent late coming at work policy? What must be there in the late-coming policy for employees? 1. Working time and days 2. Clearly state the consequences of late coming to work Late Coming Policy Template Late Coming Policy and Rules for Employees Official Reporting Hours Impact of Late Coming on Entitled Leaves Late / half-day attendance / full day leave: Salary Deduction for Late Coming How can you automate and manage the late-coming policy easily? Truein: A complete solution for leave management What makes an excellent late coming at work policy? Employees get late from time to time for several reasons. It would be unethical to punish them for reasons that are beyond their control. If a worker gets stuck in traffic, it must not attract an intervention from the HR department. Implementing an attendance late coming policy discourages the culture of regular late arrival at work. A well-defined late-coming policy ensures that employees are aware of the company’s stance against workers taking office timings lightly. It is crucial to set an example, so new employees are not encouraged to come late. Explain in the policy how the company management always accepts genuine reasons for being late but also does not tolerate employees taking the given privilege for granted causing trouble for other employees and shift schedules. The policy states that HR managers have the right to take the required course of action if employees do not adhere to the policy guidelines. What must be there in the late-coming policy for employees? Some crucial elements must be there in the late coming policy to help employees understand what constitutes late attendance and how the company deals with repeated late coming issues. Your company’s late coming attendance policy must include these: 1. Working time and days Employees must be aware of the shift timings. Clearly state what the official timings are. Working days of the week must be there as well as the lunch hours should be specified in the lunch break policy . Employees must be aware of when they will be considered late to work. It is essential to mention the timings that will be regarded as late. Such as, 30 minutes after the reporting hour will be considered late. 2. Clearly state the consequences of late coming to work Transparently mention how the company will deal with late coming. Employees must be aware of what consequences they can face for repeatedly being late to work. Include details on how leave adjustments will be made against late coming. Mention how salary deductions will be handled. The late-coming rules for employees should be specific and not ambiguous so they can easily understand and follow them. Train the HR managers to enforce the late-coming policy provisions wisely. They must pay attention to employees’ feedback about the policy or why they reported late to work. Here is a late-coming policy template that you can use. Modify it according to your company requirements and guidelines. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Late Coming Policy Template Late Coming Policy and Rules for Employees We have always appreciated the punctuality of our workforce and rewarded the same. Lately, it has been observed that several employees are repeatedly coming late to work. This has forced management to take action to ensure timely attendance. This late-coming policy states workers must follow the company’s office time and schedules. Official Reporting Hours The office timings are from 10 AM to 7 PM from Monday to Saturday. For the night shift, the official hours are from 8 PM to 3 AM. Lunch hour is of 30 minutes, from 1:30 PM to 2 PM. Impact of Late Coming on Entitled Leaves If a worker reports late for work for two days, one casual leave will be deducted from their annual quota. If a worker reports for work late more than three days in a month, one earned leave will be deducted. For fourth and fifth late coming for work, quarter-day leave shall be deducted. Half-day leave shall be deducted from the employee’s yearly quota for every next late coming. Late / half-day attendance / full day leave: Any worker reporting for work after 10:30 AM shall be considered late to work. If the time in the record for a worker is between 10:30 AM and 11: 30 AM, they shall be marked as half-day leave. Employees coming to work after 11:30 AM will be marked absent for the day. This will be considered unannounced leave and dealt with the same. Salary Deduction for Late Coming Any leave beyond two days within a month resulting from the above-detailed scenarios will be recorded as leave without pay. If an employee has used up all their available leaves and there is no leave balance to adjust, the extra leave resulting from the above scenarios will be considered leave without pay. The deductions for such leaves will be on a pro-rata salary basis within a particular month. Any request for reimbursements for extra deductions, if any, will be considered at the beginning of the next Calendar year. At the end of the calendar year, all the leaves deduction due to late coming will be balanced against the entitled leave quota. If there are any balance leaves, the amount for the same will be credited to their monthly salary at the beginning of the following calendar year. All the reimbursements will be as per the company’s late coming and leave policy, and management holds the right to make the final decisions on the matter. How can you automate and manage the late-coming policy easily? Leave management is one of the essential duties of HR managers. Manually maintaining timesheets for employees can create much overhead for managers. It also leaves scope for human error and timesheet fraud which results in erroneous compensations made to the employees. As a result, resentment against the management could build. There is an easy solution to prevent this scenario from becoming a reality. Automate your workforce attendance and leave management . Truein: A complete solution for leave management Truein is a face recognition attendance system powered by AI. It offers wholly automated attendance recording, eliminating any need for human intervention. It is one of the most accurate time-keeping solutions and helps managers and supervisors track late coming to work in real-time. With Truein, you can also create late-coming policies for your entire workforce. You can view the full image here . For the ease of payroll management, it integrates with most of the payroll software. With this time and attendance management system , a company can implement its HR policy for late coming effectively and transparently. Schedule a free demo today and know how Truein can automate you attendance tracking and leave management. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Time off Policy for Small Business: 6 Types & 5 Steps to Write a PTO Policy Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					How To Deal With Unauthorised Absence? How To Deal With Unauthorised Absence? July 23, 2024 A business has several components that must be managed to ensure operations run smoothly. The workforce is the core component, directly associated with productivity and output. What happens when your workers start showing up late or, take leave without permission? This behaviour must be dealt with in strategic planning as an unauthorised leave can severely impact a business economically and on operational terms. It is not easy for HR managers to decide how to deal with unauthorised absences as they occur unexpectedly, so any preemptive actions are difficult to take. In this article, we detail everything about unauthorised absence from work to understand the possible measures that can be taken to curb the practice. Table of Contents What does unauthorised absence mean? How to deal with unauthorised absence 1. Ensure that all employees are aware of the attendance policy 2. Try to contact the employee 3. Send a warning letter and initiate a disciplinary meeting 4. Invite them to a disciplinary meeting What disciplinary actions can you take for unauthorized absence from duty? What do I do when they come back to work? Conclusion What does unauthorised absence mean? An unauthorised absence is when an employee takes leave without providing any reason for their absence. If the worker fails to notify the supervisor or manager about their absence, such leave is unauthorised. There can be more than one version of absence without leave (AWOL). When a worker is absent and calls in to inform about the reason but mentions a reason that they are not permitted as per their employee contract, it is also considered unauthorised absenteeism. For instance, if an employee informs their manager about any personal appointments last-minute, an unplanned holiday, or any reason that HR managers deem unfit for an absence. That said, HR managers must be empathic towards permissible grounds for an employee’s absence, such as sickness or need to attend to dependants in an emergency. Poor weather conditions making it difficult to travel to work is also why sometimes employees cannot report to work. Given the sudden nature of these situations, HR managers must create clear policies as to when and under what circumstances unauthorised absence from duty disciplinary action is unnecessary. This will help supervisors to know when to take action against unauthorised absences. How to deal with unauthorised absence In the event of an unauthorised absence from work, there are several ways to deal with the situation. HR managers must be with reasonable attempts to contact the employee to ascertain the reason for the sudden unscheduled absence from work. Depending on the reply from the worker, appropriate action can be taken. Here’s how what can be done. 1. Ensure that all employees are aware of the attendance policy Prevention is better than cure, so you must take all necessary actions to prevent Unauthorized absence. The HR department’s responsibility is to prepare clear, concise, and easy-to-follow employment policies. The policies must clearly outline the company’s expectations around reporting an absence or asking for leave. Explicitly create sickness and holiday absence policies to make it easier for employees to know what the company expects from them in such scenarios. It must mention whom employees should contact if they need to leave urgently. Employees who understand the appropriate process for requesting leaves are less likely to commit mistakes. According to the company, mention in the policy what is termed as unauthorised leave. Also, give some examples as we provided above. Disciplinary actions that can be taken against unauthorised absence must also be clear. 2. Try to contact the employee If an employee doesn’t show up for work within the given time frame specified under the company’s attendance policy and is not authorised to leave, it is a valid reason to contact them. Managers can try reaching them over call and email. If there is no response, you can contact the emergency contact in case the employee is not notified and is not reachable. Once you have ensured there is no emergency; it makes appropriate grounds for dismissal for unauthorised absence from work. 3. Send a warning letter and initiate a disciplinary meeting If you cannot reach the concerned person through phone or email, after a certain number of days, and if you cannot contact their emergency contact too, you can send them a warning letter regarding their unauthorised absence. The warning letter must be an initiation for a meeting for unauthorised absence from duty disciplinary action. Ensure that you provide 48 hours’ notice to the person for the meeting. Here are some sample warning letter templates for unauthorised absence from work . 4. Invite them to a disciplinary meeting After a warning letter is delivered and they fail to attend the meeting, it is advisable to invite them for a second meeting. It is the right thing to do, and if they fail to follow the rescheduled meeting, do notify them that the meeting will go ahead regardless of their presence. Suppose the employee attends the disciplinary meeting and informs the reason which is viable and acceptable for unauthorised absence. In that case, you should tell them that such a thing will be added to their record if the behaviour is repeated. What disciplinary actions can you take for unauthorized absence from duty? It is highly unlikely that a single instance of unauthorised absence will result in disciplinary action. However, if the employee indulges in such behaviour regularly, they must be notified of a disciplinary procedure for misconduct. Next, you can hold formal meetings, issue written warning letters, and then proceed with dismissal actions. Check out some sample dismissal letters that you can utilize for unauthorised absence from work . What do I do when they come back to work? When the employees return to work after an unauthorised absence, it is necessary to investigate the reason for their undue absence. Ask them to explain why they were not present without notifying their supervisor or manager. Furthermore, they must clarify the reason for their absence. Depending on the reason, the HR managers should decide the consequences of unauthorised absence from work. If it is not a regular occurrence, reiterate the company’s stance against unauthorised leave and how it can affect their employment. Inform them that repeated failure to adhere to the company’s attendance policies can lead to strict disciplinary action. There might be circumstances when you are sceptical of the reasons provided by the employee, but you can’t categorically prove them false. For instance, if you heard an employee talking about what a great time they had at home on the same day they claimed to be unwell and took leave without informing the manager, don’t act. It would help if you gave the employee the benefit of the doubt as, without sound evidence, it is better to avoid confrontation. However, if they continue with the behaviour, even after a warning, initiate a disciplinary motion. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Unauthorised absenteeism must not be taken lightly. Such behaviour can wreak havoc on a company’s productivity and success in the long run. HR managers must create an attendance policy and inform employees about it. It is essential to have balanced policies to deal with unauthorised absence. Let workers know what makes a leave unauthorised and how it can warrant disciplinary action or result in termination from the job. leave and attendance management software like Truein can help automate the whole process of policy creation and sharing. You can view the full image here . It also provides unmatched leave management options like applying for leaves, leave approvals, adding different types of leave types, policies, and more. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to create attendance policies and manage attendance which can help to reduce unauthorised absenteeism in your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs The Importance of Absence Management in the Workplace Employee Abscond: How to Deal with Employee Absconding Cases? Overstaffing: Causes, Consequences and 8 Ways To Deal With Over Staffing Problems Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					How To Make A Schedule For Employees How To Make A Schedule For Employees July 23, 2024 For any organization, employee scheduling is one of the core tasks. It is essential to ensure business operations are not affected and productivity is high. HR managers must know how to make a schedule for employees as it helps accurately anticipate staffing needs. It is also necessary to maximize productivity by scheduling correct shifts. Since the pandemic, companies are witnessing a flux in employee schedules as businesses need to account for health and safety while scheduling the workers. As capacity restrictions became a norm for businesses, shifts had to consider safety requirements. When you are faced with a situation like you suddenly have to operate with 50% of the workforce strength, you have to make a firm schedule for employees to ensure productivity and revenues are not hit. A combination of employee scheduling and strategic planning is required for any business to run smoothly. In this article, we are about to discuss how to create a schedule for employees that gives them flexibility without compromising revenues. Table of Contents What makes a great employee work schedule? How to make a schedule for employees 1. Plan what you need in the schedule ahead of time 2. Check old data and see the availability of staff 3. Create a list of employees who can work extra shifts 4. Follow local rules and regulations 5. Use scheduling software to automate the process 6. Publish it early and ask for changes 7. Give your employees the ability to change their schedule 8. Review employee schedule regularly Conclusion What makes a great employee work schedule? Before we discuss how to make a work schedule for employees, it is crucial to understand what makes a great employee work schedule. Certain qualities of an excellent schedule for employees are standard irrespective of the industry and the size of the business. Here are the features of a great employee work schedule: It fills every shift without leaving any significant gaps in the schedule, ensuring that the business operates around the clock without understaffing. It ensures that an appropriate number of workers are available in all shifts to complete the tasks. An excellent work schedule fills the needed positions. Ensures that managers can see where each employee’s schedule prevents accidental double shifting, that is, the same worker put in two shifts simultaneously. It is also mindful of the limitations of the workers and shows managers and supervisors all the information they need to know to not over-schedule or under-schedule employees. A quality employee schedule ensures each employee is working in the positions they are hired to do without any mixups. These are vital considerations you must remember when making a schedule for employees. Now let’s explore how to make a schedule for employees that can benefit your company and the workers equally. How to make a schedule for employees The tips we are about to share will help you steer clear of the common mistakes made while preparing a schedule for employees. A perfect work schedule maximizes efficiency and profits and keeps your staff happy. So, how to create a work schedule for employees that’s a win-win? Here’s how you do it. 1. Plan what you need in the schedule ahead of time When making a schedule for employees, anticipating and planning are the key. Checking the historical data ensures that an appropriate number of employees are available for the shifts when the production is high. Also consider leaves, holidays, weekends, and overtime to understand whether you will need more or less staff. It is a great way to conserve resources and save HR time that can be better invested in business growth and management. 2. Check old data and see the availability of staff Staff availability is necessary to make employee scheduling work. You must review the old data and compare it with present attendance data to know when an employee is typically available for work. It will also help you understand when a team prefers to be scheduled. You can allow workers to choose their regular shifts or create open shifts through a scheduling app like Truein. Truein helps managers to create shifts automatically based on the availability of the workers. It considers the leave data to ensure enough employees can fill the shifts’ positions. It also allows creating overtime shifts. Managers can create and share shift schedules directly with the team through the Truein app on their phones. You can avoid two major pitfalls when you ensure the staff’s availability. There is never understaffing affecting productivity or customer service. Also, never too many employees report for duty affecting the bottom line. 3. Create a list of employees who can work extra shifts Overtime scheduling is also an integral part of employee scheduling. While it is essential to know who is unavailable, you must also track who is available to work extra shifts. When you are already aware of who is available, it becomes easier to fill in the gaps whenever there are last-minute changes in the employee schedule. Employees who are available for the extra shifts are usually the people who appreciate the chance to make extra money. You don’t have to force workers who were not available to work overtime shifts. With this knowledge, you can prioritize your team’s scheduling preferences and make them happier, boosting retention. Creating and maintaining a list of employees and their availability makes a staff schedule efficient. It will also help if your planned schedule changes due to some emergency or a worker calling in sick. 4. Follow local rules and regulations Labour laws and local regulations must be considered when creating the employee schedule. The local laws and regulations can affect how to create an employee work schedule. It would help if you considered the federal, state, and local laws regarding staff scheduling, such as breaks, overtime scheduling, overtime pay, and leaves. For instance, in India, employers must pay workers double-pay for the additional hours if they work more than a certain number of hours a day. Some countries have laws restricting employers from scheduling shifts unexpectedly and imposing additional pay for late schedule changes. HR managers need to know the local rules and regulations regarding employee work schedules. 5. Use scheduling software to automate the process There are too many variables to consider to create a schedule for employees. Manually keeping track of all the variables is tedious and time-consuming. A better alternative is to use scheduling software. Time tracking and attendance tools like Truein offer scheduling capabilities that can automate the entire process. Truein is an AI-based facial recognition attendance system . It is designed to allow companies to track whether workers are working within the campus or on-site through GPS geofencing. Truein features employee time tracking, shift management and leave management that enables managers to monitor the availability of workers at all times. It also has the option to customize 70+ policies like the overtime policy , attendance policy, and leave management rules. Workers can record attendance, report availability, and check shift schedules directly from their smartphones. 6. Publish it early and ask for changes While predictive scheduling can help ensure the availability of the workers during shifts, it still needs planning. Also, it would help if you let employees know as early as possible about the shifts change. It is necessary to allow them enough time to adjust to the shift change. The work situations evolve constantly, but you have to ensure that you publish the schedule in advance, so workers have a chance to review and share their feedback. Truein allows HR managers and supervisors to keep scheduling information up to date and accessible for all workers. It allows them to check the schedule changes as soon as they are made and prevents any requirement for manual print or emailing schedules. Also, employees are automatically notified whenever schedule changes, ensuring they are aware of the change. 7. Give your employees the ability to change their schedule When you think about how to make a schedule for employees, you must consider the workers’ participation. It is a straightforward way to allow employees to access and change their schedules and make things much less stressful. As managers, when you allow participation of the employees in shift scheduling, you don’t have to worry much about whether shifts are covered or if there is some confusion. Workers can check and accept schedules on their own. You must set some ground rules when you allow employees to alter their schedules. For instance, employees should provide a 24-hour notice for nonemergency schedule changes. In an emergency, you can pick the staff from the list of available workers. This approach ensures workers feel in control of their time and are not stressing about unexpected or frequent schedule changes. Using applications like Truein is effortless as it allows managers to change and manage the worker’s shifts. As workers can access shift schedules through the Truein app on their phones, they can easily keep track of shift changes or notify supervisors about any discrepancies. 8. Review employee schedule regularly Often it is tempting to copy the schedule from the month or week before when no changes are expected. Businesses frequently change, so HR managers must review employee schedules regularly to ensure that they reflect the latest information and accommodate the needs of the work and employees. For example, when there is a change in production around a certain period, you will need to add it to the schedule to inform workers about it. You create a balanced employee work schedule with fairness, consistency, and flexibility. Effective scheduling not only increases the efficiency of the workforce but also reduces stress among workers. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion An employee work schedule is an essential requirement for any organization. We hope this guide explains all the requirements and considerations you must take to make a schedule for employees. Truein is an excellent tool for automating employee work schedules and it eliminates manual time tracking and leave management. Furthermore, it easily integrates with most payroll software making it easier to calculate salaries and expedite paychecks. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Handle Employees That Leave Work Without Permission 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Timesheet Reminder: How To Get Employees To Submit Timesheets On Time Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form