Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Face recognition Attendance for your Employees and Contract workers No complicated Hardware! Truein runs on any mobile/tablet device and can be setup as Kiosk or Selfie mode. The solution is designed to bring transparency & control in Attendance process and helps to plug revenue leakages. Time and Attendance Solution for your Distributed staff and Contract workers. Centralized and Foolproof. Increase workforce productivity. Plug revenue leakages. Use Truein, a Face Recognition based Attendance and Timesheet solution Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Transparency and control in your Attendance process Accurate Face Recognition Recognize face with mask on. AI-powered robust solution Mobile/Tablet based Truein runs on any Android/iOS device. Geofencing option. Centralised Controls Real time view of all sites. Multiple reports and Analytics. Increase staff Productivity 30+ automated policies designed to boost workforce productivity Kiosk mode (Touchless) Selfie attendance with Geo-fencing Face Mask screening Multiple In-Out Integration with HRMS/Payroll GPS Location Capture Reports and Analytics Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Offline attendance Shift Scheduling Leave management Reports and Analytics Employee Directory Govt ID capture ESS (Employee self service) Contract Staff Use Case 50+ powerful yet easy to use features to streamline Staff Attendance There are reasons why Truein is your preferred partner Mobile/tablet app based (Android, iOS) No complicated hardware required. Truein runs on any Android or iOS device Accurate face recognition Works with mask, under low light conditions, skin ageing – you name it AI powered technology advantage Experience powerful card scanning and many more smart features Powerful yet simple to use products Practically designed features to ease operations and boost efficiency Enterprise-grade data security and privacy Comprehensive infra, stringent security protocols, recovery systems and audits Dedicated support via multiple channels Fast and friendly team accessible over phone hotline, email or log a ticket Touchless face attendance with 30+ built in features Kiosk mode (Touchless) Selfie attendance with Geo-fencing Face Mask screening Multiple In-Out Roles and Access Self Registration Integration with HRMS/Payroll GPS Location Capture Reports and Analytics Mobile app dashboard Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Offline attendance Shift Scheduling Leave management Reports and Analytics Alerts & Notfications Employee Directory Regularization workflows Govt ID capture Print ID cards Manage Contractor company ESS (Employee self service) Touchless visitors management with 100+ built in features Face based visitor entry Bulk invite User app Visitor self declaration Company branding Smiley based feedback Evacuation, overstay alerts Blacklist/watchlist Face mask screening Share safety tips NDA signing Calendar invite Centralized view Multiple reports & analytics Multiple roles Host directory Invitation templates (Email & SMS) Material module Event module Visitor feedback One Truein, many applications. Get more Covid compliant entry Hardware less attendance Contract workers attendance Remote/roaming staff attendance Enhance security Create wow experience Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Accurate Face Recognition Recognize face with mask on. AI-powered robust solution Mobile/Tablet based Truein runs on any Android/iOS device. Geofencing option. Centralised Controls Real time view of all sites. Multiple reports and Analytics. Increase staff Productivity 30+ automated policies designed to boost workforce productivity Kiosk mode (Touchless) Selfie attendance with Geo-fencing GPS Location Capture Reports and Analytics Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with HRMS/Payroll Shift Scheduling Leave management Contract Staff Use Case Offline attendance 50+ powerful yet easy to use features to streamline Staff Attendance Face recognition is the future of attendance and visitor entry systems The future is now Schedule a demo Learn how Truein is helping companies to increase workforce productivity . Get in Touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials We are hiring! Always looking for great talent Are you excited to work for a B2B SaaS company? We are a fast growing SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solution to the companies with Contract and Distributed workforce. Truein is trusted by 500+ customers across the globe and touches the lives of 200k+ staff. We are backed by investors and a high potential team, who love the family-like culture and the excitement of working with a mission-oriented startup. If you are a go-getter with a positive attitude, we’d love to hear from you. Pick the right role for you and simply drop us an email. o 40% off Lite Plan Up to 90 users up to 100 users Key Features up to 100 users Face recognition based & Touchless Attendance via Kiosk app (tablet/mobile) at entrance Geo-fenced attendance via User app User/Admin app (Android, iOS) Admin web dashboard Attendance policies/compliance Multiple reports and Analytics 1 year of attendance historic data accessible Contract Workers attendance Offline attendance mode Start a Free Trial Get a Free Trial Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Join the journey and discover what sets us apart. Explore Life at Truein Open positions Enterprise Account Executive (B2B SaaS Sales) We are looking for an Enterprise Sales Specialist to join our team. The candidate should be ambitious, result oriented with great attention to details. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Customer Success Manager We are looking for a Customer Success Manager to join our team. The candidate should be able to contribute to building relationships, implementing new programs that will increase your business’ revenue potentials and minimize churn rates. It is an individual contributor role wherein the person would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. If you’re familiar with it, we’d like to meet you For the detail Job Description: Click here Product Support Specialist As a Product Support Engineer, you will be the primary point of contact for any customer issues/queries and must ensure that each interaction is handled with a professional attitude and a superior level of service. You will focus on getting our customers back on course when challenges arise and contribute to internal discussions around product enhancements. It is an individual contributor role wherein the person would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Business Development Representative We are looking for a Business Development Representative to join our team. The candidate should be ambitious, result oriented with great attention to details. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here QA Engineer We are looking for an experienced QA Engineer to release high quality software solutions. You’ll be part of a cross-functional team that’s responsible for the full software development life cycle, from conception to deployment. Your primary responsibilities will include working closely with the tech team and the product manager, designing testing strategies, automated and manual testing for mobile and web modules of the product. It is an individual contributor role wherein the person would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here UI/UX & Graphic Designer We are seeking a talented and creative UI/UX Graphic Designer to join our team. In this role, you will be responsible for the entire user experience across our Time and Attendance products, ensuring a seamless and user-friendly experience. You will collaborate closely with product managers, engineers, and other designers to translate user needs into intuitive and visually appealing interfaces. For the detail Job Description: Click here Backend Developer We are looking for an experienced backend developer, who is proactive, a quick learner, and has a go-getter attitude to join our team. As a Backend Developer, you will be responsible for developing high-quality server-side web applications as well as for the integration of the front-end part.  It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Frontend Developer We are looking for a Frontend Developer to join our team who will work closely with our team of talented engineers to design and build high-quality mobile & web applications. Deep experience contributing to and managing high-scale production web development. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Content Writer We are looking for a content writer to join our team and enrich our websites with new blog posts, guides and marketing copy. You will deliver quality writing pieces that appeal to our audiences, attract customers and boost brand awareness. The candidate should be ambitious, result oriented with great attention to detail. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Flutter Developer We are looking for a Flutter Developer to join our team who will work closely with our team of talented engineers to design and build high-quality mobile applications. As a Flutter Developer, you will create multi-platform apps for iOS and Android using Google’s Flutter development framework. Deep experience contributing to and managing high-scale production mobile apps. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Finance Manager We are seeking a talented Finance Manager to join our growing team and contribute to the financial success of the organization. The candidate should be ambitious, result oriented with great attention to details. For the detail Job Description: Click here SEO Specialist We are looking for a SEO Specialist to join our team. The candidate should be ambitious, result oriented with great attention to details. It is an individual contributor role wherein you would work with a small but highly competitive and effective team. For the detail Job Description: Click here Angular / Web Full Stack Developer We are looking for 2-4 years experienced full-stack developer. You’ll be part of a cross-functional team that’s responsible for the full software development life cycle, from conception to deployment. As a Full Stack Developer, you should be comfortable around both front-end and back-end languages, development frameworks, and third-party libraries. If you’re familiar with it, we’d like to meet you For the detail Job Description: Click here Head Of Marketing In this hands-on Marketing Lead role, you will play a pivotal role in driving the growth of our product. You will lead the development and execution of marketing strategies, with a strong focus on demand generation, to achieve our revenue targets. Your entrepreneurial spirit and proven ability to grow a company’s revenue will be essential to your success in this role. For the detail Job Description: Click here Send us your resume at teamup@truein.com Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Advanced biometric face recognition system for practically 100% accuracy We are driven by innovation, a secure & scalable technology without the need for a biometric face attendance machine. Pioneering biometric face-recognition technology Face onboarding with just 1 picture Low light correction Aging effect rectification Face to right-service match Attendance use case fine tuning Group face detection in one picture Face recognition with Mask Accuracy Results 100% When no mask 97% When mask pulled down below nose 85% When mask covering upto nose tip 67% When mask covering higher on the nose * 5370 test runs with mask so far * Without mask face recognition entry - over 7 million so far Powerful card scanning technology Truein’s proprietary Truescan technology has eliminated the need for manual entries or syncs with a practically 100% reliable scanning of Government ID. Bringing you the best of technology Truein Solution Truein Attendance Truein Visitors Truein Scan Truein face technology layer Face onboarding with just 1 picture Low lightCorrection Aging effectrectification Face to right-service match(based on demography & ethnicity) Attendance use case fine tuning Core face recognition services FR Service 1 FR Service 2 FR Service 3 Truein product platform Technologies OCR & Parsing algo Face recognition AI, ML Cloud & Mobile Platform focus Security Simplicity Scalability Bringing you the best of technology Bringing you the best of technology Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein Time & Attendance Software Reviews Testimonials Case Studies India GCC Africa Piyush Dutt CPO, Compass Group "Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. Their tool is simple and intuitive. The team is very customer focused, responsive, and always willing to help. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. They have the best and most cost-effective solution." Read Compass Group's Case Study → Sujit Pawar DGM, OCS Group "Truein is highly accurate, multipurpose, and user-friendly time clock software that covers all the modules. It detects fake clock ins & generates notifications. Overall perfect solution and excellent support." Srinivas G Sr. HR Manager, Tata 1mg "Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 3000+ staff at 37 different sites and the user experience has been great." Read Tata 1mg's Case Study → The Schindler group had a manual attendance system for managing contract staff, lacking transparency. They heavily depended on contract agencies, each department had its own cost center, and everything was manual. Truein introduced centralized attendance management for transparency, simplified staff sourcing through contract agencies, and automated cost center processes for smoother operations. Read Schindler's Case Study → Sobhana Rout Assistant Manager-Control Tower, HS Supply Chain and Logistics "With Truein, we effortlessly get the attendance data of all our warehouses pan India right from our corporate office. We can analyze staff consistency and punctuality using Truein reports. Truein is extremely user-friendly." Read H S Supply Chain Service's Case Study → Gaurav Kumar Singh Director, KKSEPL "Truein has drastically reduced the time it takes for the attendance of 1400+ staff at various locations. With Truein's seamless integration, user-friendliness, and prompt support, we have already implemented it at all our sites." Umesh Arya Head IT, PC Jewellers "After implementing Truein time and attendance management became hassle-free, and all the required reports were available with a single click. The rollout was smooth, and all our 1500+ staff at 60+ stores went live within 2-3 days." Read PC Jeweller's Case Study → The Shriram Fortune Group was looking for an attendance solution to manage their field and remote staff spread across the country through one centralized system. Truein Time and Attendance helped to nullify their pain areas by providing geo-fenced mobile attendance and centralized controls over multiple locations. Read Shriram Fortune Group's Case Study → Ekansh Chitlangia Director, Aum Dacro Coatings "Truein offers various advantages over traditional attendance monitoring systems. They have helped us overcome all the bottlenecks that we used to face in our previous attendance system. We have upgraded all our four plants with Truein." Vipin Joshi AVP- Administration, Bitwise "Truein is very user friendly & can be customized as per our needs. The support & technical team has been always very quick and excellent. We are also effectively able to manage our contract staff attendance very effortlessly & it’s working fine." Avinash Patil​ Manager-Operations, Embassy Group "We have been using Truein Time and Attendance at Embassy Group. Very useful and user-friendly for Admin & Security team. Excellent support and quick response by the Truein support team." Supreet Kaur Director, Healthy Minds "Truein implementation at Healthy Minds was a seamless process, and the user experience has been great. We can now effectively manage the attendance of all the staff at our bakery. I would highly recommend Truein!" Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator, Backerhaus Veit "After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. The team's great support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours, removing any room for human error." KAD was looking for a solution that offers them centralized control of staff attendance across their sites. Truein Time and Attendance, with its real-time view of attendance at multiple sites consolidated in a single platform, took care of their needs. Read KAD's Case Study → Alaa Hassan Head of Ops Excellence, Jumia "Truein has helped Jumia a lot not only for tracking the attendance but also to measure productivity based on the worked hours and to calculate the payout for the external employees based on their attendance." UAPM was looking for a solution to protect their organization from time frauds and improve their overall productivity. Truein Time and Attendance, with its geo fencing and random attendance audit feature, came to their rescue. Read UAPM's Case Study → Girish Nimbalkar AGM HR, SJ Contracts "We are using Truein Time and Attendance system at our 22 sites for over 6,000 staff. Truein has built-in customization options and gives multiple real-time reports. And it's a very user friendly product!" Read SJ Contract's Case Study → Mr. Sandip Kumbhar AGM HR-India, Maschio Gaspardo India Private Limited "Truein has the best solutions for Time and Attendance Monitoring, It has brought transparency and accountability to my employee benefits endeavors. Their support is excellent too." Mr. Amit Desarkar Manager HR & Administration, Unnatti Construction Pvt Ltd. "Truein is an excellent solution, and we are using it at our 4 sites (500+ staff) across India. Truein has helped us prepare accurate payrolls and monitor real-time attendance along with location tracking." Ashish Banga CHRO - Vishal Mega Mart "The Truein team ensured seamless implementation and integration of Truein for our large, diverse workforce spread across India. I highly recommend Truein for any large distributed workforce requiring a robust and reliable system to manage its time and attendance processes." Read Vishal Megamart's Case Study → Sandeep Deo Sr. Manager HR Operations, Godrej "We enquired with many vendors and suppliers for Face recognition attendance product and finally we opted for Truein. The software and their support has always been inline with our needs and expectations." Read Godrej's Case Study → Chirag Faterpekar Sr. Hr. Manager, Veejay Facility Management "Truein is well-conceptualized and easy to use. Our experiences with the after-sales service team have also been very positive. The app offers relevant information organized in an easily understandable way. Overall, an excellent app backed by a competent and responsive team." Read Veejay Facility's Case Study → Vicky Hemdev Director, Smart Payroll Group "We highly recommend Truein not only for its beneficial software but also for its top-notch after-sales customer service (we are based in the United Kingdom).This set it apart from others offering similar services." Anant K Director, Xpertpack "We have people spread across various locations. Geo tagging helps us see how many people are present and where in real time. Truein has enabled us to cut manual attendance cards and automate calculation of Overtime, attendance rules and shifts." Siddharth Thard Managing Partner, Kadamba Tea "Truein has helped us get better visibility and control over the time & attendance of our staff. The geofencing feature works really well. Overall we are really happy with the solution." Vijay Kanani Export Manager, Evolution Ceramics "We are really happy to use Truein. It’s very user-friendly, and we did not face any issues while setting it up. Thank you very much for everything." Shrikaant Ghadgay Assistant Manager – HR, BHTC "We are pleased with Truein Time and Attendance System. We get real-time data which has greatly eased our work of monitoring & data maintenance. It has saved our time in many ways. I would especially like to highlight their prompt response to all our queries." Carlos Woodson Technology Manager, Phoenix Transload Services "It was difficult to be brief because there is so much good to say!
I evaluated every time and attendance solution I could find. Truein outshines them all. From the beginning, Truein’s rich feature set put it in a class above the others, meeting every criteria on our list. Their friendly support staff is thorough and responds quickly.The Truein development team is fully engaged with customers, continually making the product better suited for our needs." Henry Carrillo Farm Administrator, Unispice "Truein's comprehensive features have strengthened the quality and accuracy of Time & Attendance process. It has helped to ensure compliance with relevant rules and regulations and generates trust among end-users." Read Unispice's Case Study → Nagham Nasr Sr. Manager, Reyada "Truein is a simple app for attendance tracking for our staff. The truein team is always available to assist us whenever required. They’re always ready to meet our standards most professionally." Wajahat Khan Payroll Admin, Al Magamsi General Contracting "This face detection time & attendance software is very effective at our construction company. We did not face any trouble. Full marks to Truein and their support team! highly recommend it for any small or large enterprise." Pantheon was troubled with the issue of buddy punching. Truein, with its robust and accurate face attendance system, helped them solve this crisis. Read Pantheon's Case Study → Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form