Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Centralized and Robust Distributed Workforce Management With Time and Attendance Software GPS Geofenced based attendance and timesheet solution for your field workers and distributed staff deployed at multiple remote sites. Truein brings in transparency and plugs revenue leakages. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Instant and Anywhere Mobile/Tablet based. Geofenced clock in from staff’s own mobile or a kiosk for your multiple sites. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the admin, HR, supervisor, or management. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per sites or staff categories. Shifts, Overtime, Late marks, Half days, Weekly off, and more. Auto-deactivation, blacklisting, and other features to ensure security. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Distributed Staff Companies with Workforce Management? Vishal Mega Mart, a retail chain, uses Truein to manage their 450+ locations centrally and maximize staff productivity. 450+ Sites 15000+ Staff Vishal Mega Mart was using biometric machines and manual attendance processes in their stores. This led to mismanagement of attendance data, irregularities, and a lack of transparency. One of their main challenges was frequent staff transfers across their stores, which made attendance tracking cumbersome. They were looking for a centralized attendance system. Truein offered multi-site access and simplified the staff transfer process. The staff could easily mark attendance at geofenced stores using the Truein User App on their mobiles. Centralized controls enabled easy tracking of staff at any of their stores. Truein’s solution led to greater transparency and helped plug attendance-related leakages across the organization. Read more The Truein team ensured seamless implementation and integration of Truein for our large, diverse workforce spread across India. I highly recommend Truein for any large distributed workforce requiring a robust and reliable system to manage its time and attendance processes. Ashish Banga CHRO Vishal Megamart Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Capture and track the time & attendance of your distributed workforce, whether on the field or at any of your worksites. Stay in control with Truein's centralized dashboard. Centralized Controls to Track Distributed Staff at Multiple Sites Centralized view enables tracking of your distributed and roaming staff. Know where all your staff are - rightfrom your phone. Get a real-time view of attendance status and history, download reports, manage staff directories, and more from the web dashboard or mobile app. Instant Setup at any Location/Site New sites coming up often? Or have multiple sites? Truein is portable, lean, and scalable. It offers attendance through an app, so no more spending on hardware. Fix the mobile device on a flexible stand and move it to any location. Your staff can onboard or clock in with a selfie using their mobile or a staff mobile or through a kiosk. Selfie Clock-in with Facial Recognition Truein's AI-powered facial recognition feature offers practically 100% accurate clock ins. Helps to eliminate buddy punching by your roaming or field staff. The feature works with face masks or changes in facial attributes like a beard, a new hairstyle, or even with spectacles. Clock In/Out at Multiple Locations With Truein's GPS Geofenced based attendance solution, roaming or field staff can mark attendance at one or more approved locations. Multiple locations are traceable with time and location stamps. Geofencing ensures the staff clocks in only at specific locations and not when they are out of range. Centralized dashboard offers a real-time view of the clock-ins and the staff’s work location. Easily Manage Staff Transfers to Multiple Sites Simply change the base site to transfer the staff. System auto-assigns policies and configurations to the staff as per their new site. You can always change their access or policies. If needed, you can provide access to multiple sites to a particular staff member. Multiple Self-Serve Features to Empower Your Staff The mobile app enables your staff to regularize their time & attendance, view their leave history, apply for time off, check their leave status, view the shift allocated, and more from any location. You can also approve leaves from the app and check which of your other team members are on leave. No Internet or Poor Connectivity? Truein Tracks Time Offline Too Staff can clock In/Out with or without the internet, and you can continue tracking their attendance. Face recognition and GPS tracking also work without the internet. No more buddy punching or time theft in the offline mode. Truein automatically syncs data once the internet is back. Pay-Roll Ready Reports Truein seamlessly integrates with any 3rd party HR/payroll software. Detailed time and attendance reports and analytics make managing payroll easy. Error-free final payroll-ready reports eliminate the need for reconciliation and the creation of manual attendance reports. Get daily and monthly reports directly from the app in a format of your choice. Customizable Policies to Save Valuable HR Hours With Truein, you can customize over 70+ attendance policies as per your site and staff category. Assign shifts automatically, set late marks, half day, and shift timings, calculate overtime, and track your staff with real-time reports. No more manual tracking and calculations. Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Frequently Asked Questions Is Truein easy to set up, and is it scalable? Yes, Truein is extremely easy to set up in any location and is scalable. The app can be easily installed on a tablet or mobile. The staff can mark attendance using their mobile or from a dedicated kiosk. No upfront hardware costs are involved, and no maintenance of custom hardware is needed. Is Truein suitable for our use case/staff? Truein is a complete attendance and timesheet solution for companies with staff distributed across their sites/offices and for field staff who need to visit multiple clients. It is an ideal solution for staff who are frequently transferred to other branches or need to visit other sites or branches of their company for inspection, maintenance work, etc. Truein time and attendance solution is ideal for retail stores, facility management companies, supply chain and logistics companies, and more. Can consolidated attendance reports be generated? Yes, Truein offers multiple reports and analytics. You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein offers various report formats, and you can even customize these formats. EOD summary via SMS is another feature of Truein. Can we geofence multiple sites? Yes, you can geofence multiple sites. You can set up geofencing in multiple locations individually for each staff member (One by one) or in bulk (bulk assign). Can we customize leave policies and holidays for different sites? Yes, you can customize the leave policies and holidays for different sites. You can also customize leave policies as per staff categories. Are there any other features specific to a Distributed Workforce or Field Staff that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing centralized controls, instant time tracking, and customizable policies, also offers the following features: Self-Onboarding No Proxy Punch Staff Directory Govt. ID Capture Leave Management Job Mapping Admin or Supervisor view Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Touchless Face Recognition Attendance System Centralized and Foolproof Truein is designed for Contract and Distributed workforce Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Mobile/Tablet based Face Recognition Attendance System You won’t need any complicated hardware as Truein eliminates the need for a standalone face attendance machine. Configure Truein's app on any Android or iOS based device, and you are good to go. Recognize Face with Mask on Truein runs an AI-powered face recognition attendance system, which provides practically 100% robust and accurate attendance. The facial verification feature can screen for face masks and identify people even with any change in facial attributes like beard, change of hairstyle or with accessories like specs. Selfie based Geofencing Technology Staff can clock in using their mobile phones. Our geofencing technology allows attendance only from approved locations. Perfect for contract workers, retail store staff, and on-the-go field staff. Automated Attendance Policies and Reports Set late marks, half-day, overtime, shift timings, and other policies right within Truein's staff management tracker and keep a close watch with real-time reports. Export detailed spreadsheets for compensation and other calculations. Leave Management Staff can apply for time off, or managers can do it on their behalf. Approvals and notifications happen right within the Truein system. Our truly holistic attendance system syncs everything automatically, so month-end calculations are a breeze. 30+ built in features to automate attendance processes Kiosk mode (Touchless) Selfie attendance with Geo-fencing Face Mask screening Multiple In-Out Roles and Access Self Registration Integration with HRMS/Payroll GPS Location Capture Reports and Analytics Mobile app dashboard Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Offline attendance Shift Scheduling Leave management Reports and Analytics Alerts & Notifications Employee Directory Regularization workflows Govt ID capture Print ID cards Manage Contractor company ESS (Employee self service) Check out more feature and pricing plan Transparency and Control in your Attendance and Timesheet Process Anywhere and Instant Runs on Mobile/tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-Sites & Centralized Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and controls. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per Location or Staff category. Shift, Overtime, late marks, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. 100+ powerful yet easy-to-use features to streamline Staff Attendance Kiosk Mode (Touchless) Selfie Attendance with Geofencing Face Mask Screening Multiple In-Out Integration with HRMS/Payroll GPS Location Capture Reports and Analytics Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Offline Attendance Shift Scheduling Time off (Leave) Management Reports and Analytics Staff Directory Govt. ID capture ESS (Employee self-service) Contract Staff Use Case Do you want to know more? Watch a demo Talk to us Talk to us Truein advantage, Compared with others Others Mobile-based Complicated hardware AI-powered high accuracy Low accuracy Touchless Attendance System Contact-based User-centric & practically designed Complex and bulky solution Get started in three easy steps It takes less than a day to set up the entire Truein time & attendance system end-to-end. STEP 01 Upload Records The HR manager can upload organization-wide staff data in bulk using spreadsheets. STEP 02 Register Face The staff can upload a clear picture of their face using their mobile or from a Truein Kiosk app. Register Face Employees can upload one clear face picture from their very own mobile through the Truein app. STEP 03 Take Attendance Place a device (tablet or mobile) in a kiosk at the entrance. The staff simply walk towards the device to trigger face recognition and record attendance. Alternatively, enable geofencing and let them clock in using their phone. Easy! Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Frequently Asked Questions What is a face recognition attendance system? A face recognition attendance system is a type of biometric technology that uses artificial intelligence to automatically identify and verify individuals based on their facial characteristics. These systems are commonly used to track attendance in workplaces, stores, and other organizations. The system captures an image of the individual's face and then compares it to a database of pre-registered faces. If a match is found, the system records the individual's attendance. These systems can be integrated with existing time and attendance software and can also be used for security and access control purposes. How does the face recognition attendance system work? A face recognition attendance system uses AI and machine learning algorithms to identify and verify an individual's identity based on their facial features. It works by capturing an image or video of a person's face, then extracting facial features such as the distance between the eyes, nose, and mouth, and comparing them to a database of known faces. If the system finds a match, it will mark the person as present. Is the attendance system secure and private? Yes, the technology is quite mature and very secure and private. The actual facial image is not required to be stored in the database to verify the identity. Instead, a unique hash code (comprising a numeric or alphanumeric string) is created for each facial image, and the matching happens against this code. Can Truein handle multiple users and locations? Yes, Truein can easily handle multiple users and locations. Truein is app-based and can be easily installed on any mobile device. So, you don't require complicated hardware or standalone attendance machines. You can fix the mobile device on a flexible stand and move it to any location. Truein is lean, portable, and scalable. With Truein's GPS-based geofencing attendance system , you can fence any location in terms of latitude and longitude to track staff attendance accurately and effortlessly. Roaming or field staff can be given permission to mark attendance at one or more approved locations. Geofencing ensures the staff clocks in only at specific locations and not when they are out of range. How accurate is Truein in recognizing faces? Truein facial recognition attendance system is highly precise and offers practically 100% accurate attendance. Truein can accurately recognize an individual from among 50,000 users or more. The inbuilt algorithm is such that it can accurately identify faces irrespective of any changes in demography and ethnicity. Truein can recognize faces with masks or changes in facial attributes like a beard, a new hairstyle, or with spectacles. Besides, it offers low light correction, aging effect rectification, group attendance, and face onboarding with just one picture. How can I get started with using the attendance system? Truein is extremely simple to use. To get started, just download and install the android or iOS app on your mobile device. The staff can instantly onboard by snapping a selfie, and once they're done, they can mark attendance using their mobile phones or through a kiosk. Can I integrate Truein with my existing HR or payroll software? Truein seamlessly integrates with any 3rd party HR/payroll software via API integration. It tracks staff hours regularly, and the data is automatically streamlined with payroll. With detailed time and attendance reports and analytics, Truein makes payroll management easy. The error-free final payroll-ready reports eliminate the need for reconciliation and the creation of manual attendance reports. In addition, you can get daily, and monthly attendance reports directly from the app in a format of your choice. How can I troubleshoot issues with the attendance system? You can refer to our demo videos and exhaustive list of FAQs to troubleshoot and resolve any issues. The videos and FAQs are in the Help and Support section, and you can access them via the Web Dashboard or the User App. The FAQs will provide detailed information about Truein features, specifications, and usage. However, if you still need help, contact Truein Support at support@truein.com​ or call us at +91 93099 87376 . Can I customize it to fit my business needs? Truein face recognition attendance software is highly customizable and can be used out of the box. You can customize over 70+ attendance policies as per your site and staff category. For example, you can assign shifts automatically, set late marks, half days, and shift timings, calculate overtime, and more. Additionally, if you have any specific requirements, our team is available to evaluate the same, and we will try our best to customize the policies for you. Is there a free trial or demo available? Yes, we have a free trial, and for that or any other queries, you can schedule a free demo or reach us at hello@truein.com , and we'll get back to you as soon as possible. Does the attendance system work when users are offline/not connected to the internet? Yes, Truein tracks time offline too. The staff can clock In/Out even without the internet, and you can continue tracking their attendance. Face recognition and GPS tracking also work without the internet. You no longer have to worry about buddy punching or time theft in the offline mode. Truein automatically syncs the data once the internet is back. Blogs How does face attendance win over other biometric systems? 5 Attendance Punching Machine Drawbacks and Better Alternatives What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? How does an Online Attendance System Work? 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Cleaning & Janitorial Staff Time and Attendance Software Time & attendance tracking, employee scheduling and job tracking system for janitorial & cleaning businesses Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Instant and Anywhere Runs on Mobile/Tablet. Face and geofenced clock in from staff’s own mobile or through a kiosk at the customer site. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple client sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the HR, admin, or supervisor. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per location or staff categories. Automated Shift rostering, Weekly off, Overtime, Break time, Late marks, and more. Automated Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Companies with Janitorial/Cleaning Staff Truein streamlined Compass Group’s time & attendance processes and increased transparency internally across multiple layers and with their customers. 744Sites 23,000 Staff One major challenge the Compass Group faced was attendance tracking of their staff working for multiple clients on the same work premises. Another challenge was frequent staff transfers. They were looking for accuracy in attendance capturing and centralized controls for their staff at multiple sites. Truein streamlined their attendance processes. A single capturing device for staff working at multiple clients in the same premises bought transparency. Truein also simplified their staff transfer process. The foolproof attendance system helped prevent revenue leakages and shift planning improved staff productivity. Truein also offered them multiple-level hierarchy for attendance access at different levels. Read more Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. The team is very customer focused, responsive, and always willing to help. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. They have the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Don't let manual timesheets hold you back! Choose Truein for Accurate and Automated time tracking for your business. Get in touch Designed with Cleaning & Janitorial services companies in mind. Prevent Buddy Punching Say no to buddy punching with face recognition and GPS Geofenced based clock-in. Ensure each clock-in and clock-out is genuine and accurate, effectively eliminating costly time fraud in janitorial time tracking. Precise Job Time Tracking Effortlessly track the time your cleaning and janitorial staff spend on specific tasks and jobs using our advanced janitorial time tracking software. Gain valuable insights into productivity, optimize staff allocation, and improve overall operational efficiency. Eliminate off-site clock-ins By enabling geofence in Truein janitorial time tracking app, staff can only clock in and out from the pre-assigned geofenced location. This ensures your cleaning/janitorial staff are present at your customer site and accurately compensated for their work. Manage Last moment Schedule Changes Ensure that your cleaning and janitorial staff are always where they're needed most. Adapt swiftly to last-minute changes in Site visits or Jobs on a day. Optimize your workforce allocation, and keep your operations running smoothly, no matter what changes the day brings. Centralized Janitorial Reporting Software With Truein’s janitorial timekeeping software, gain complete oversight of your cleaning/janitorial staff's status from multiple sites in real-time. Truein’s janitorial reporting software helps you keep track of their locations, Jobs, and clock-in/out statuses all from one centralized dashboard and make informed decisions on the go. Track Multiple Job-sites visit on the same day Effortlessly track the time your cleaning/janitorial staff spends on multiple site visits in a day. Easily track and analyze work hours across various customer sites, enhancing your ability to manage resources and ensure accurate compensation for each site visit. Simplify Job & Shift Scheduling Easily create shift schedules, assign Jobs, and optimize staff allocation with the janitorial scheduling feature in Truein's timekeeping software. Ensure that the right staff is in the right place at the right time, enhancing overall productivity and service quality. Comprehensive Time Off and Absence Management Truein goes beyond traditional janitorial timekeeping, offering a comprehensive Time Off and Absence Management system. Staff can request hourly, full or half-day time off via their mobile or managers can do it on their behalf, it also offers customizable policies and calendars for different sites, regions, and staff categories. Mobile Time Tracking for Cleaning Services Simplify time tracking for your cleaning crew with Truein's user-friendly app. Enable seamless clock-ins and outs, supported by face recognition and GPS Geofencing for precise job and site tracking. Let your crew effortlessly manage their attendance, apply for leaves, make time corrections, check schedules, and receive timely notifications—all from the convenience of their smartphones. Integration with Janitorial Payroll Software Irrespective of the HRMS or janitorial payroll software implemented in your organization, it can easily integrate with Truein, ensuring precise time calculations and generating error-free payroll reports. Comprehensive time and attendance reports, along with analytics, simplify payroll management. Get daily and monthly attendance reports directly in your preferred format. Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Frequently Asked Questions Can Truein be integrated with our existing payroll system? Yes, Truein can be easily integrated with any 3rd party HR/payroll software via API integration. Is Truein easy to set up, and is it scalable? Yes, Truein is extremely easy to set up in any location and is scalable. The app can be easily installed on a tablet or mobile. The staff can mark attendance using their mobile or from a dedicated kiosk. No upfront hardware costs are involved, and no maintenance of custom hardware is needed. Can we transfer our staff from one location or site to another? Yes, Staff can easily be transferred from one site to another. After a staff member is transferred, all you need to do is reassign their manager and set access to the sites that the staff is permitted. What type of policies can I create with Truein? Truein provides 70+ policies that can be tailored to your specific needs. These policies cover various aspects such as attendance, break times, overtime, weekly holidays, regulatory compliance, time tracking, and more. We source our staff from multiple contractors. Does Truein offer any feature specific to this? Truein is a time and attendance solution designed specifically for contract and distributed workforce. Truein offers solutions to manage onboarding documentation, policies, and more on the contractor level. In addition, you can also give required access to your contractor managers. What onboarding features does Truein offer? The contract workers or staff can onboard themselves with a single selfie, which is a huge relief, especially when workers change daily. As Truein is app-based and runs on mobile/tablet devices, onboarding can be instantly done at any customer site. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form