Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Centralized and Foolproof Time & Attendance Solution for the Retail Industry Face recognition and mobile-based time & attendance solution for your staff across multiple stores Get Truein to optimize staff utilization, and plug revenue leakages Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers in 25 Countries Instant and Anywhere Runs on Mobile/Tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple stores. Get transparency and centralized controls for the HR and managers. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per location or staff categories. Late marks, Half days, Weekly off, Overtime, Holidays, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Retail Management Companies Vishal Mega Mart, a retail chain, uses Truein to manage their450+ locations centrally and maximize staff productivity 450+Sites 15000+ Staff Vishal Mega Mart was using biometric machines and manual attendance processes in their stores, leading to mismanagement of attendance data, irregularities, and a lack of transparency. One of their main challenges was frequent staff transfers across stores, which made tracking attendance cumbersome. They were looking for a centralized attendance system. Truein offered multi-site access and simplified the staff transfer process. The staff could easily mark attendance at geofenced stores using the Truein User App on their mobiles. Centralized controls enabled tracking staff at any of their stores. Truein’s solution led to greater transparency and helped plug attendance-related leakages across the organization. Read more The Truein team ensured seamless implementation and integration of Truein for our large, diverse workforce spread across India. I highly recommend Truein for any large distributed workforce requiring a robust and reliable system to manage its time and attendance processes. Ashish Banga CHRO Vishal Mega Mart Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Mobile Based Clock in with Geo-fencing and Centralized Controls for your Store staff Frequent Transfer of Staff Across Stores? Offer staff access to multiple sites or stores. In cases of heavy customer load at a store during seasonal sales, track staff across stores and transfer them easily. Geofencing ensures staff is present at the store while marking attendance. Stores are Distributed Across Cities? Centralized controls and analytics help you achieve better transparency and make informed business decisions. View the real-time attendance status of your staff, download reports, manage the staff directory, and more from the web dashboard or mobile app. Avoid Hardware Spendings Truein offers attendance through a mobile app. It is robust and foolproof and uses advanced face recognition technology. Staff can easily take attendance by showing their face on their own mobile or other staff mobile. Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Frequently Asked Questions Can a staff get additional site access or access to multiple sites or stores? Yes, staff can be given access to multiple sites or stores. For example, a staff member belonging to the head office wanting to visit Site A or Site B for audit work or any other official work can be given access to these sites. They can mark their attendance at these sites. Can we customize leave policies and holidays for our stores in different regions? You can customize the leave policies and holidays as per your store location. You can also customize leave policies as per staff categories. Can we geofence our stores? Yes, you can geofence your stores. The staff must be in the geofenced location to mark attendance. How can we manage staff transfers across our stores using Truein? After a staff member is transferred, you need to reassign their manager. Once the transferred staff reaches the assigned store, they can easily mark their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Does Truein offer leave management? Leave management is smooth and easy with Truein. The leaves are tracked online and are linked to the staff's work schedules. Managers can approve leaves from anywhere, and multi-level approvals can be set. The staff can avail of full or half day leaves or leaves for even a few hours, in case they need to arrive late or leave early. There is also a facility to carry forward leaves, enable sandwich leave policy, and set other leave policies. The staff can easily apply for leaves online and view their status. There is also a provision for managers to apply for leave on behalf of the staff. Can Truein be integrated with our existing payroll system? Truein can be easily integrated with any 3rd party HR/payroll software via API integration. Can consolidated attendance reports be generated? Yes, Truein offers multiple reports and analytics. You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports. Additionally, Truein offers various report formats, and we can even customize these formats. EOD summary via SMS is another feature of Truein. Can we customize late marks for our different store locations? Customizing late marks as per your store location and staff category is possible. You can customize break time, half-day, OT, and other 70 + policies. Plus, there is a provision for regularization if a staff member forgets to punch in or out or for other manual corrections. Is Truein suitable for our use case/staff? Truein is a complete attendance solution for your distributed staff. Our solution is suited for retail companies with stores across cities or multiple stores across a particular city. Centralized controls enable easy tracking of staff across stores and make the transfer process a breeze. Are there any other features specific to the retail industry that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing centralized controls, mobile-based attendance, geofencing, and customizable policies, also offers the following features: Self-onboarding No Proxy Punch Attendance Reminder Notification Shift Scheduling Staff Directory Viewing of Real-time Reports on Mobile Employee self-service on mobile Bulk upload, edit, and delete staff details Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs How retail chains are solving the age-old attendance & compliance problem? How Biometric Attendance System Can Benefit Retail Stores? Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization How To Hire and Manage Contract Employees Easily? Human Resource Management Problems and Solutions Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Face recognition based Time and Attendance software for Manufacturing industry Foolproof mobile-based time & attendance system for your Contract workers working in the manufacturing industry. Get Truein to plug revenue leakages. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Accurate In-Out Captures 100% Robust and Accurate face based clock ins. Payroll-Ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Contract Staff Attendance Manage contract worker’s time & attendance of multiple contractors Multi-Sites & Centralized Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Powerful yet easy-to-use features to streamline your frequently changing Manufacturing/Factory staff attendance Shift Scheduling Plan in advance or automatically allocate shifts like general, day, or night, in bulk for the entire organization or individually for each staff. Absence Management Staff can apply for time off or managers can do it on their behalf. Approvals and notifications happen right within Truein, to making month-end calculations a breeze. Manage Contractor Agencies Sourcing staff from multiple contractors? Manage their documentation, policies and more at the contractor level. Give required access to your contract managers. Accurate Overtime Tracking Truein allows you to create custom overtime policies based on your requirements. There are 70+ existing policies to help you track time and attendance accurately. Create Custom Attendance Policies and Reports There are 70+ attendance policies and reports in the Truein dashboard that you can use to automate the overtime tracking, shift management, and payroll process. More Practical Features Admin or supervisor view Clock in reminders Offline mode with auto sync Job mapping Integration with HRMS/Payroll Realtime reports on mobile Daily summary SMS Multiple in-out Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Attendance System Case Study Truein helped Godrej Lawkim Motors solve their contract staff time & attendance problems 1 Production Site 700+ Staff Godrej Lawkim Motors is a pioneer of motors and Motor Components manufacturing. Godrej LawkimMotors offers energy-efficient solutions for a variety of applications including commercial, industrial and home appliances. Godrej Lawkim Motors was using fingerprint based biometric devices and were facing difficulties in keeping track of contract staff attendance. Optimal shift management and implementation of various attendance policies were major challenges for them. Read more We enquired with many vendors and suppliers for Face recognition attendance product and finally we opted for Truein. The software and their support has always been inline with our needs and expectations. Sandeep Deo Sr. Manager HR Godrej Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs How To Increase Productivity and Efficiency in Manufacturing Manufacturing Shift Schedules: A Complete Guide How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? 7 Manufacturing Industry HR Challenges and Possible Solutions How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Centralized and Robust Time & Attendance Solution for Manpower Staffing Agencies Face recognition-based attendance and timesheet solution designed specifically for staff deployed across client locations Truein brings in transparency, control and builds trust. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Instant and Anywhere Mobile/Tablet based. Geofenced clock in from staff’s own mobile or from a kiosk. Multi-sites and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the admin and management. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per sites or staff categories. Late marks, Half days, Weekly off, and more. Auto-deactivation, blacklisting, and other features to ensure security. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Manpower and Staffing Industry Companies Truein streamlined Compass Group’s time & attendance processes and increased transparency internally across multiple layers and with their customers. 744Sites 23,000 Staff One major challenge the Compass Group faced was attendance tracking of their staff working for multiple clients on the same work premises. Another challenge was frequent staff transfers. They were looking for accuracy in attendance capturing and centralized controls for their staff at multiple sites. Truein streamlined their attendance processes. A single capturing device for staff working at multiple clients in the same premises bought transparency. Truein also simplified their staff transfer process. The foolproof attendance system helped prevent revenue leakages and shift planning improved staff productivity. Truein also offered them multiple-level hierarchy for attendance access at different levels. Read more Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. The team is very customer focused, responsive, and always willing to help. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. They have the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Truein, with its accurate attendance, centralized controls, and comprehensive reports, makes it incredibly simple to manage your staff at multiple client locations. Quick Onboarding Frequently changing staff or need to supply staff at short notice? Truein helps onboard or add new staff instantly. The staff can onboard by showing their face on the kiosk or with a single selfie using their mobile. Onboarded staff can be immediately sent to multiple clients without the need for any re-onboarding at the client site. Centralized Controls to Track Staff Across Client Sites Centralized view enables tracking of your staff deployed at multiple client locations. Know who is in or out in real-time. Reduces risk of reconciliation issues, brings transparency, and builds trust with clients. Get a real-time view of attendance status and history, download reports, manage staff directories, and more from the web dashboard or mobile app. Avoid Delayed Payments Accurate time calculations and analytics ensure error-free final payroll-ready reports. Avoids delayed payments from customers caused by manual approval processes. Customized OT settings enable payment of exact salaries. Multiple Clients on the Same Premises? Get Shared Kiosks Cross-site mapping enables laborers working across multiple facilities on the same premises to check in from a common kiosk, saving money on multiple attendance devices. Avoid Hardware Spendings Portable, lean, and scalable time & attendance solution. No hardware investment is required as Truein offers clock in through an app. Fix the mobile device on a flexible stand and move it to new locations whenever needed. Staff can easily clock in by showing their face on the kiosk, their mobile, or other staff mobile. Easily Manage Staff Transfers Simply change the base site to transfer the staff. System auto-assigns policies and configurations to the staff as per their new site. You can always change their access or policies. If needed, you can provide access to multiple sites to a particular staff member. Frequently Asked Questions Is Truein easy to use for a lower-skilled workforce? Yes, Truein is very much easy for them to use. Truein is designed keeping in mind a lower-skilled workforce. It is robust and foolproof and uses advanced face recognition technology. Staff can easily take attendance by showing their face on a kiosk or their own mobile. Is Truein easy to set up at new client locations, and is it scalable? Yes, Truein is extremely easy to set up in any location and is scalable. The app can be easily installed on a tablet or mobile. The staff can mark attendance using their mobile or from a dedicated kiosk. No upfront hardware costs are involved, and no maintenance of custom hardware is needed. Is there a feature to track blacklisted staff? Yes, Truein offers a feature called 'Blacklist' to track blacklisted staff and prevent them from rejoining. When a staff reports to a site, the system will cross-check with the information in the database, and in case the staff was blacklisted previously, the system will convey the same. Can we deactivate staff who have been absent for a long time? Yes, you can auto-deactivate staff if they remain absent for a certain number of days. This policy is helpful if you have frequently changing staff and are unsure if your staff will report back to work. You can also deactivate staff for safety purposes. Is Truein suitable for our use case/staff? Truein is a complete attendance and timesheet solution for your distributed and contract staff. Our solution is suited for manpower and staffing agencies, providing staff/laborers for various industries like manufacturing, engineering, chemical, pharma, food, hospitals, and more. Can Truein be integrated with our existing payroll system? Truein can be easily integrated with any 3rd party HR/payroll software via API integration. Can consolidated attendance reports be generated? Yes, Truein offers multiple reports and analytics. You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein offers various report formats, and you can even customize these formats. EOD summary via SMS is another feature of Truein. Can we customize policies? Yes, you can customize policies as per your site and staff category. You can customize break time, half-day, OT, late marks, and 70 + other policies. Can we geofence our multiple customer sites? Yes, you can geofence your customer sites. You can also set up geofencing in multiple locations individually for each staff member (One by one) or in bulk (bulk assign). Are there any other features specific to Manpower Staffing Agencies that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing centralized controls, face recognition-based attendance, payroll-ready reports, and customizable policies, also offers the following features: Self-onboarding No Proxy Punch Staff Directory Employee Self-service on Mobile Bulk Upload, Edit, and Delete Staff Details Offline Attendance with Auto Sync Govt. ID Capture Attendance Reminders Detailed Attendance Reports and Analytics Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Centralized and Foolproof Time & Attendance Solution for the Supply Chain and Logistics Industries Face recognition-based attendance and timesheet solution designed specifically for contract workforce deployed across multiple sites Get Truein to optimize staff utilization, and plug revenue leakages Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers in 25 Countries Instant and Anywhere Mobile/Tablet based. Instant onboarding of new staff. Enable Geofenced Clock In from staff’s own mobile or set up on a kiosk. Multi-site and Centralized Controls Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls for the HR, admin, and managers. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per sites or staff categories. Shifts, Overtime, Late marks, Half days, Weekly off, and more. Auto-deactivation, blacklisting, and other features to ensure security. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Regularizations, Approval workflows with audit trails. How Truein helped Supply Chain & Logistics Industry Companies H S Supply Chain, a logistics company, uses Truein to manage their contract staffat 50+ sites centrally and maximize staff productivity and utilization. 50+Sites 4K Staff H S Supply Chain had diverse attendance processes across their sites, making attendance capturing and tracking tedious. Staff onboarding was challenging as they had contract staff, most of whom changed daily. The number of staff required at the sites also varied every day. Further, the company had a policy of procuring only a fixed number of staff members from a contractor agency. Accurate time calculations, including overtime policies, were one of the major challenges. Truein offered them a face recognition-based attendance and timesheet solution, which is designed for lower-skilled workforce use cases. Site-level and contractor-level attendance limit features ensured that the correct number of staff was supplied to the sites. Real-time centralized dashboard enabled site and category-wise view of their staff. Customized reports and analytics helped the management to make the right decision on staff planning and forecast. Read more With Truein, we effortlessly get the attendance data of all our warehouses pan India right from our corporate office. We can analyze staff consistency and punctuality using Truein reports. Truein is extremely user-friendly. Sobhana Rout Assistant Manager-Control Tower HS Supply Chain and Logistics Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Extremely Easy-to-use Time & Attendance Solution. Centralized Controls for your Multiple Sites and Workforce. Frequently Changing Staff? Onboard or add new staff instantly through the kiosk or mobile. Staff can immediately start working as there are no delays waiting for the admin to onboard the staff.The contractor agency onboarding feature enables the contractors to onboard the staff at their end. Track Staff Attendance at Multiple Warehouses Centralized controls and analytics help you achieve better transparency and make informed business decisions. View the real-time attendance status of your sites. Centralized dashboard provides site-wise and staff-category-wise views. Sourcing Staff from Multiple Agencies? Contractor-level limit feature help control the number of staff sourced from a contractor agency. Stops a contractor agency from sending more staff than the agreed number, preventing additional billing. There are features to manage staff documentation, policies, and more at the contractor level. Control the Number of Check-ins at Each Site Site-level limit feature controls the number of staff who can report to each site daily. Provides better control to manage the staff whose number keeps fluctuating every day. Simplify Shift Management Automatically allocate the shifts bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changing number of staff in each shift. Frequently Asked Questions Is there a feature to track blacklisted staff? Yes, Truein offers a feature called 'Blacklist' to track blacklisted staff and prevent them from rejoining. When a staff reports to a site, the system will cross-check with the information in the database, and in case the staff was blacklisted by the company previously, the system will convey the same. We have a lower-skilled workforce. Will Truein be easy for them to use? Yes, Truein is very much easy for them to use. Truein is designed keeping in mind a lower-skilled workforce. Truein is robust and foolproof and uses advanced face recognition technology. Staff can easily take attendance by showing their face on the kiosk app. We have new sites coming up very frequently. Is Truein easy to set up and scalable? Yes, Truein is extremely simple to set up in any location and scalable. Truein can be easily installed on a tablet or mobile, and no complex hardware is required. Further, there are no upfront costs involved, and you don’t have to spend on the maintenance of custom hardware. Can we deactivate staff who have been absent for a long time? Yes, you can auto-deactivate staff if they remain absent for a certain number of days. This policy is helpful if you have frequently changing staff and are unsure if your staff will report back to work. You can also deactivate staff for safety purposes. How can we manage staff transfers to our sites using Truein? When staff is transferred to another site, you can easily change their site accordingly in Truein. This will remove their access from the previous site and add them to the new site. They can now access the new site and mark their attendance there. If needed, you can give access to multiple sites to a particular staff member. Do you offer any solution for managing overtime (OT)? Yes, Truein makes OT calculations easy. OT and other calculations can be done automatically for easy payroll processing. Can we customize leave policies and holidays for different sites? Yes, you can customize the leave policies and holidays for different sites. You can also customize leave policies as per staff categories. Can Truein be integrated with our existing payroll system? Truein can be easily integrated with any 3rd party HR/payroll software via API integration. Can consolidated attendance reports be generated? Yes, Truein offers multiple reports and analytics. You can generate daily or monthly attendance reports and view reports of multiple sites on the dashboard. Additionally, Truein offers various report formats, and you can even customize these formats. EOD summary via SMS is another feature of Truein. Can we customize policies? Yes, you can customize policies as per your site and staff category. You can customize break time, half-day, OT, late marks, and 70 + other policies. Are there any other features specific to the Supply Chain and Logistics industry that Truein offers? Truein, in addition to providing centralized controls, face recognition-based attendance, and customizable policies, also offer the following features: Self-onboarding No Proxy Punch Staff Directory Employee Self-service on Mobile Bulk Upload, Edit, and Delete Staff Details Offline Attendance with Auto Sync Govt. ID Capture Attendance Reminders Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? Top 6 HRM Trends to Watch In 2024 Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? Manpower Budgeting – Definition, Explanation, and Example Manpower Forecasting – Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form