Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					How To Reduce Your Employee’s Overtime? How To Reduce Your Employee’s Overtime? July 25, 2024 Overtime is a problem for both companies and workers. It often feels like the only option you have to meet productivity demands, but it comes at a high price. Several studies provide clear evidence that overtime is counterproductive. One study found that a 10% increase in overtime can reduce productivity by 2.4% . The little boost you get by burning the ‘midnight oil’ is at the cost of the energy of the workers, which affects their overall work routine. It is not to say that you cannot schedule occasional overtime to meet a deadline. Just if the company has a sustained reliance on expensive employee overtime, it is a reflection of poor management. In this article, we will explore how to reduce employee overtime strategically. We share some tips that can help you deal with overtime. Table of Contents Six tips to reduce employee overtime 1. Take meetings when only required 2. Your employees must have proper tools and training 3. Create an overtime policy 4. Allow flexible work schedules 5. Cap overtime hours 6. Use time-tracking software to track overtime Conclusion Six tips to reduce employee overtime 1. Take meetings when only required Team meetings are helpful but not always the best use of your workers’ time. When sitting in a meeting room, employees often lose a chunk of their time when they have only a few minutes of project updates to share. The rest of their time is spent on their phones. For the blue-collar workforce, it means not calling them for meetings often from the production floor. This wasted time is better utilized in accomplishing real work. Your company should adopt innovative ways to consider project updates instead of meetings. Digital work management and task management tools like Asana and Jira are best for automated communication between employees and management. 2. Your employees must have proper tools and training Reducing overtime is more about maximizing the output of regular employee hours. The rule here is to work smarter, not longer. Surprisingly, an average worker spends more than a quarter of their day just reading and answering emails at work. It is just one example; several similar day-to-day tasks occupy your team’s time. You have to ensure that your workers are performing their duties correctly. Email automation allows you to respond instantly to customer queries instead of mailing them one by one. For employee training and onboarding, you can also use self-paced programs so that workers can learn at their pace and get better at their jobs. For manufacturing and construction industry it requires replacing manual tools with automated devices such as replacing hammers and forging tools with power tools. Most companies do not know how to decrease overtime, and they keep looking for better and more significant ways when small things can add up and reduce overtime. To maximize productivity within the available work hours, you must ensure that your workers have the tools to do the best work. If workers spend their time troubleshooting old equipment, it leads to poor efficiency; so you need to provide them with new tools. 3. Create an overtime policy As a manager, you can quickly moderate the overtime the workers put in by clearly specifying the policies that ensure work-life balance. Some of the most successful companies offer great benefits like flexible work schedules, remote working, and unlimited paid time off to give their employees greater control over where and when they work. In the absence of an overtime policy , employees are not sure what the company’s stance is about overtime. This usually defaults to a workaholic mindset where workers assume that working longer hours with getting them promotions and better compensation. You have to ensure that workers do not develop such a mindset. 4. Allow flexible work schedules In a post-pandemic era, it is clear that work-life balance is most important for workers. Flexible work schedules allow employees to attend to critical personal duties like kids, aged parents, or illness. Flexibility in work schedules will enable them to take care of their responsibilities without taking offs or working overtime. 5. Cap overtime hours There are no federal limitations on how much overtime a worker can work. While there is no legal framework, employers are within their rights to cap overtime hours. Overtime might be inevitable, but it doesn’t have to stress the labor costs to the extent that it starts eating up profits. A comprehensive overtime policy can determine the workers’ week, month, and even annual overtime hours. You can keep the policy flexible to have room for extra hours in case an employee is required to work more overtime. Capping overtime is the best way to ensure that work gets distributed more evenly amongst the workers so everyone can work overtime hours. 6. Use time-tracking software to track overtime Once you have a constructive overtime policy, you can use time and attendance software like Truein to ensure all policy guidelines are followed. Truein is a cloud-based attendance software that also features automatic overtime calculation. It is a hardwareless software that can be deployed directly on smartphones to start recording attendance and overtime. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Overtime management is essential to reduce labor costs. We hope the tips listed here will help you reduce overtime and increase productivity within the workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs 7 Ways To Reduce Absenteeism In The Workplace Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Facility Management Time and Attendance »  					6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations May 28, 2024 Commercial buildings are a requirement for organizations to provide a safe environment for their employees and consumers. Facilities management must be sustainable through energy conservation, waste management, planned maintenance, and more. Still, many business owners fail to understand that sustainable success and growth cannot be achieved without effectively planning facility management. Table of Contents What is facility management? Six ways to improve facility management operations 1. Automate facility management activities by using facility management software 2. Implement a preventive maintenance plan to make it easier to forecast when a repair is required 3. Centralize all the facility management operations 4. Engage with their employees across all departments and know about the issues 5. Upgrade your equipment 6. Track employee attendance properly Conclusion What is facility management? Facility management is a professional discipline that involves efficient and sustainable delivery of services and facility improvements to ensure uninterrupted productivity. Here are the top tips for driving long-term facility management success that we have learned after interviewing 20+ experienced facility managers. Six ways to improve facility management operations 1. Automate facility management activities by using facility management software How can you streamline facility management and reduce operational costs? It’s a common question asked to facility managers. The solution is data that can be used to analyze and forecast various facility management processes. An investment in an integrated workplace management software system that can automate facility management activities can help you create a well-orchestrated workplace in your facilities. These systems offer numerous features and resources that facility managers can use to get deeper insights. This data can help them make decisions that can drive beneficial changes. When you can automate most facility management services such as vendor management, in-house service tracking, availability to track work orders, automatically invoice vendors, and advance notify workers about upcoming maintenance of service requirements, you can manage facility service much more efficiently. A software system does much more than one person can ever do – streamline facilities management services. 2. Implement a preventive maintenance plan to make it easier to forecast when a repair is required Facility managers must be able to operate services at optimum efficiency. For this, assets must be managed carefully with a preventive maintenance plan. Experienced facility managers understand how with preventative maintenance, the life of the assets can be extended, infrastructure can be maintained, and downtime can be reduced to a bare minimum. Key performance indicators or KPI analytics data can help you make data-driven decisions for constructing a preventive maintenance plan. Some facility managers find maintaining and tracking necessary performance indicators for preventive maintenance plans overwhelming. It often happens when there is no software maintenance to help you collect and analyze data. Again, the importance of an integrated facility management software system is highlighted here. When you can manage and track as much information about equipment within the facility, you can forecast preventive maintenance better. Facility management software records all important equipment details such as manufacturer, serial number, emergency repairs, warranty information, and recommended checkups. It is beneficial because you are no longer susceptible to reactive maintenance as you proactively fix faulty equipment or wear and tear before it halts operations at facilities. 3. Centralize all the facility management operations Decentralization can be a significant hurdle in facility management. When facility managers do not have access to all the information regarding the operation process, there are more likely to make mistakes. This is why centralizing all the facility management operations using the software is how you can improve facility management. There are several benefits of centralized federal facility management operations. You get real-time data on repair and maintenance management, easily track parts and supplies, inform settlement and payment processing, perform asset management more efficiently, and provide faster support to contractors, vendors, and customers. You can open a new frontier for futuristic facility management services by correctly leveraging the facility management software. Digitalization of businesses is mandatory today. If you want to stay relevant and beat the competition, you have to initiate data-driven decisions. Centralization of the facility management operation is how you can achieve that. 4. Engage with their employees across all departments and know about the issues To improve facility management operations, facility managers must collaborate with other stakeholders. Engaging employees from technical teams, janitorial crews, packers and movers, waste haulers, and others will help you manage operations and eliminate miscommunication. Building relationships with these key stakeholders and encouraging feedback can help reduce facilities’ environmental footprints, increase recycling rates, and ensure operations run smoothly. When facility managers can encourage and engage with employees across several departments, they create a sustainable and positive environment. Employees feel encouraged to take accountability for their roles and perform at their best. 5. Upgrade your equipment A core responsibility of facility managers is to ensure that building assets and equipment remain updated at all times. You must keep an eye on the newest technologies that can help optimize facility management operations and cut costs. For example, for most facility buildings, upgrading HVAC systems, installing solar panels, replacing old lighting with LED, and replacing or repairing old equipment will boost efficiency and sustainability. Potential cost reduction can be accessed by upgrading HVAC systems as you can provide ventilation on demand, saving heat and electricity. Automatic adjustment of ventilation within the facility building is also eco-friendly. Lighting, ventilation and air conditioning should be optimized automatically based on the occupancy of the facility buildings. 6. Track employee attendance properly Facility managers cannot be at all places at all times, making it extremely difficult to manage the facility’s workforce without automated software. Another way to improve facility management operations is to adopt employee attendance tracking software to ensure workers are performing tasks allotted to them at the designated location within the facility. Truein is a hardwareless time and attendance management system based on cloud infrastructure. Facility managers can use Truein to track employee locations using geofencing and GPS targeting . For facility workers, the app offers the option to record attendance using their smartphones. This software uses face recognition technology to identify employees. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion As a facilities manager, you will come across opportunities and face new challenges, but with appropriate tools, you can streamline the operations. We hope these tips on improvement of facility management operations will help you improve overall sustainability and cut operational costs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How Advanced Workforce Management Solutions Can Transform Hospitality Operations in the Middle East? 20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organizations Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Manufacturing Time and Attendance »  					How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry May 28, 2024 Manufacturing businesses are highly dependent on labor due to their operational demands. As a result, most of the budget planning for a manufacturing company is around labor cost optimization. If your company is struggling with managing the cost of labor continuously, then there is a need for a successful cost reduction strategy. In this article, we will explore how to reduce labor costs in manufacturing by efficiently balancing resources and the workforce. We explored several direct and indirect methods to improve a manufacturing company’s bottom line. Read on to learn what methods some of the most successful manufacturing companies use to reduce labor costs. Table of Contents Four ways to reduce the labor cost in the manufacturing industry 1. Reduce the number of working hours and cut overtime if not required 2. Train employees when they are not performing well 3. Create a proper schedule of how many work hours and how many employees required 4. Invest in automated machines and software How can Truein help? Conclusion Four ways to reduce the labor cost in the manufacturing industry 1. Reduce the number of working hours and cut overtime if not required You can save a lot of money by converting full-time jobs into part-time roles by reducing the number of working hours. If your manufacturing unit struggles to keep the budget low frequently, it is preferable to reduce the number of hours than the headcount. An easy way to reduce the number of working hours is by job sharing, where two part-time employees share a full-time role. There are several benefits of this approach. It cuts labor costs, reduces the need for extra office space, and makes shift scheduling easier. Manufacturing companies can also downsize office space by reducing employee hours through job sharing. As fewer workers will be there, say about just half the usual, so less workspace will be needed during a shift. 2. Train employees when they are not performing well One of the reasons for increased labor costs in manufacturing companies is poor productivity. When the workers are not properly trained to perform their duties, they are more likely to commit mistakes, and the manufacturing process has to be repeated. This is why it is essential to monitor their performance and individual contributions to be able to customize a training program for them. Establishing a training plan for employees is how you can reduce labor costs in manufacturing. There should be initial training when onboarding new labor and an ongoing training regime to ensure that employees stay current. A well-trained workforce in the manufacturing company is necessary to enhance productivity and reduce rework. It is also beneficial for the workers as they can perform their roles much better and take further initiative. 3. Create a proper schedule of how many work hours and how many employees required Another effective way to reduce labor costs is to create a proper employee schedule . Overscheduling is common in manufacturing companies due to poor shift scheduling. This is why some companies still bear avoidable labor costs in any operation. As a manager, when you don’t have access to correct information about the production demands, workforce, and skill sets, your scheduling will be a “best guess.” Here scheduling software can provide the needed information for well-planned schedules. Managers can use the software to have complete information about the workforce, available employees, and production demand. This ensures they make their scheduling decisions from the data, not guesswork. You can checkout our guide on manufacturing shift scheduling here and create shift schedules that actually works for your organization. Adopting scheduling software is how you can ensure that your business is always adequately staffed to meet the demands and eliminate any excessive and unnecessary labor hours. It is also a way to keep employees happy, as a study by Harvard University shows that 70% of workers’ schedules are changed last minute, disrupting their personal and financial lives. 4. Invest in automated machines and software Technology is the solution for cost management in several industries. If you are wondering how to reduce labor costs in manufacturing, it is through adopting automated machines and software. Many manufacturing units can substantially reduce labor costs by automating or assisting processes with efficient tools. For example, using the internet of things sensors within the manufacturing industry helps reduce technicians’ workload. Automation is also the answer to increase productivity and reduce the total time it takes to manufacture goods. You can save a lot of money otherwise spent on manual labor costs. How can Truein help? Truein is a complete employee attendance and time tracking software that you can deploy without additional hardware. It is cloud-based employee management and shift scheduling software that offers features like attendance tracking, overtime calculation, real-time tracking through geofencing and GPS targeting , leave management , shift scheduling, and much more. It also easily integrates with most payroll software ensuring workers are paid accurately for the number of hours worked. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion You can try these methods when your manufacturing business starts feeling the pressure to reduce labor costs without affecting production. Paying overtime or hiring new labor to increase production can quickly affect profits. You must be familiar with methods to reduce your reliance on overtime or temporary workers. Adopting new technology and making employee scheduling efficient is best for controlling costs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How to Reduce Labor Costs - Maximizing Efficiency and Savings Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry May 27, 2024 Running a construction business can be lucrative but it is one of the most human resource-intensive sectors. Gaining access to quality labor can be expensive. According to Statista, the US employment cost index has seen a significant surge of up to 0.7 percent in 2020. Add the horrendous impact of the pandemic on the construction industry, companies are struggling to pay their employees and looking for ways to reduce labor costs without reducing headcounts. Without proper strategy and management on reducing labor costs, you can be left with less-than-optimal profits or worse debt. Fortunately, there are some ways in which businesses can reduce labor costs in the construction industry. In this article, we discuss how businesses can reduce the overall labor cost in the construction industry. Table of Contents Why is reducing labor costs in construction necessary? How to reduce labor costs in construction 1. Estimate labor costs at the start of the construction project 2. Review your site crew structure and see if you have the skilled workers for the tasks 3. Streamlining your workflow schedule 4. Go paperless Conclusion Why is reducing labor costs in construction necessary? In the construction industry, more than 61% of the final sales price of a project goes into building costs. These costs generally include the cost of labor and materials. For most of the projects, it splits 50/50 between the cost of labor and materials, but for some projects, it can be up to 30/70. The construction services industry keeps the gross margin close to 19% , but that’s on paper. Your profits can dip to a low if the costs of building the project are not appropriately managed. Little can be done about the building materials because you need materials to complete a project. However, efficient management can lower labor costs without taking money away from your employees. Here are some ways to reduce labor costs for a construction project. How to reduce labor costs in construction Over the years, the construction industry has devised inventive and ingenious ways to reduce labor costs without sacrificing quality or cheating workers. Let’s take a closer look at how it’s done. 1. Estimate labor costs at the start of the construction project Unless it’s your first construction project, you will have a good idea of what labor costs will be involved in the project. To provide an estimate, you must use your previous experience with similar projects as a benchmark. You have to consider employee turnover and the increase in the cost of labor. You have two choices – a time and materials contract and a fixed-price contract for the project. In a time and materials contract, you calculate labor costs per hour, and the material prices are flexible and can increase or decrease depending on the project’s demand. A fixed-price contract has a total value estimation for a set project. You have to deliver the project within the quoted price. While a time and materials contract pays more, as your client will pay the exact cost of the work based on labor rate and cost of materials, you can quote a higher price. However, there is no structure to project completion here, and construction work progresses on the go. A fixed-price contract is more rigid, with well-defined documentation of specific phases and deadlines. Unless your project goes beyond the defined outline, the price won’t change. Some construction business owners find it risky, but this type of contract has defined expectations, and it’s much easier to keep the project on track. 2. Review your site crew structure and see if you have the skilled workers for the tasks In recent years the construction industry has been through a lot. First, the housing crisis of 2008 led to the loss of more than 2 million workers between 2007 and 2011. Then the global pandemic forced numerous construction businesses to suspend labor, close projects, and terminate employees. All these events have highlighted the need for the correct site crew structure. Every construction business has a composite of employees. There are skilled and unskilled workers. Interestingly, many business owners do not understand how to reduce labor costs by giving the right task to appropriately skilled laborers. You must review your site crew structure to ensure that the right people lead the teams. If you have put someone in the position of a supervisor who is better as a worker, consider providing them further training to make them better leaders. This is important to get quality work out of them. Another critical aspect is ensuring your most skilled workers do what they do best. Don’t cut on paying them for their performance. It might sound counterintuitive; how can you reduce labor costs when you are spending more money? You are missing the point of quality work. Suppose if one of the supervisors in your team is excellent at electrical work but spends more time overseeing lesser skilled workers, you might be losing money. Their electrical work, such as wiring and lighting, might need redoing. Think about how much it will cost you to redo the entire work. This is why giving skilled workers the right job can help you reduce labor costs. 3. Streamlining your workflow schedule In every construction business, it is essential to streamline the workflow. The hard part is how you facilitate the workflow schedule. First, you must ensure that your work flowcharts are created with realistic goals and expectations. Second, workflow schedule charts must be well-defined. They must explain the nature of work and mention which laborer fits best in which subgroup. The workflow schedule must also clearly define the time for each task to get completed. Match over the days’ progress of your construction crew with the workflow schedule chart. Discuss and ask for feedback from leaders to make the necessary changes to streamline the workflow schedule. 4. Go paperless By digitizing documents such as workflow schedules and performance charts, you can make better decisions on reducing labor costs. Going paperless allows you to stay on top of processes without visiting the site. Your supervisors don’t have to waste their time completing paperwork. There is no need to enter data into a system manually. With automation, you can easily track the construction project’s production at every phase. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition time and attendance management software based on the cloud network. With this software, you can ensure workers are present on site through GPS and geo-fencing features. It tracks attendance in real-time, offers shift scheduling, and eradicates time punch errors . It enables you to pay laborers for hours they work accurately. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Being on top of material and subcontractor costs is not enough to make your construction business profitable. You have to manage labor cost-efficiently as it can take up to 50% of your revenue. We hope these tips will help you reduce labor costs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form