Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					What Is Workforce Optimization? Benefits and Top 5 Strategies What Is Workforce Optimization? Benefits and Top 5 Strategies July 23, 2024 In the post-pandemic era, work culture is changing, and businesses are evolving. It might seem that little is under control, but some core processes vital to business operations can still be managed. The workforce is at the center of the changes that COVID-19 put into perspective. People are looking for better work-life balance , resignations are at an all-time high, and there is an increasing need for workforce optimization. Workforce Optimization (WFO) is what “work smarter, not harder” implies. It is about enabling employees to work at their best by streamlining various business operation processes. In this post, we will explore workforce optimization and strategies and techniques you can use to increase productivity with the same workforce. Table of Contents What is Workforce Optimization? What are the benefits of workforce optimization? 1. Increased efficiency and productivity 2. Staff management to reduce costs and improve savings 3. Improved customer service and retention 5 Workforce optimization strategies 1. Scheduling employees efficiently 2. Time management and attendance tracking 3. Monitor performance and Task completion 4. Improve communications between managers and employees 5. Adopt Cost-Effective Operations Conclusion What is Workforce Optimization? According to Wikipedia , “Workforce optimization (WFO) is a business strategy that integrates business performance considerations with workforce management. The strategy involves automating processes, data visibility, compliance on legislation, and solving business problems related to staffing.” In simple terms, workforce optimization is a strategic management practice aiming to improve a company’s employees’ efficiency, performance, and productivity. Here, the ultimate goal is to streamline every possible process to create an environment for optimizing the existing workforce and achieving overall organizational success. Industries can benefit from effective workforce optimization strategies and it is a common practice in the IT and Human Resource sectors. Today, retail, manufacturing, and financial services utilize workforce optimization techniques to improve productivity and revenues. Here the common approach is to monitor a specific position’s activity to anticipate the number of employees required to meet the forecasted requirement. However, you must not confuse WFO with Lean Six Sigma, Agile, or other optimization methodologies that organizations use to make processes and people more productive. Instead, WFO combines most of these methodologies with a unique approach to streamline the workforce for boosted productivity. Software companies offer WFO in their products to help industries with workforce management through quality monitoring, eLearning, liability recording, surveying, coaching, and performance management. You can use workforce optimization to streamline many business operations, including automation, legislation compliance, customer service, and solving business problems. What are the benefits of workforce optimization? Workforce optimization allows companies to get the most out of the talent available and adds agility and cost efficiency needed to succeed. Let’s check out some significant benefits of implementing workforce optimization strategies in your company. 1. Increased efficiency and productivity Optimizing the workforce to keep its productivity and efficiency high is essential. With workforce optimization, you can engage talent and encourage them to deliver increased output. Through analytics and insights, you can track the performance of individual workers and prioritize ways to help them improve daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly. With a streamlined work environment, straightforward onboarding process, and positive work environment, employees can perform at their best without feeling burnout. It also encourages employees to contribute to company goals with their self-motivated efforts. 2. Staff management to reduce costs and improve savings Proper staffing is necessary to ensure that the required number of employees is always available on the floor. That being said, it does not imply that you overstaff. Both overstaffing and understaffing can be the cause of loss for a business. Work optimization offers many cost savings opportunities. The most important benefits include: Flexibility in hiring the right talent can help you lower the overall payroll costs and reduce the time spent on recruiting activities. Workforce optimization can help companies discover the requirements for a position and match it against available talent. With WFO, you can significantly reduce the risk of worker misclassification, avoiding costly lawsuits, fines, and penalties. It is essential if your company operates in multiple markets with varying employee laws. It also creates opportunities to provide better customer service as a company can offer the best customer service with the optimal number of employees. It also creates opportunities for up-selling and cross-selling. Workforce optimization techniques also automate many business processes and offer real-time guidance and actionable insights. This data helps create more revenue opportunities. 3. Improved customer service and retention As mentioned above, when you have optimized the workforce with the correct number of staff, you can offer excellent customer service. It enables companies to resolve customer queries efficiently and faster. This is how WFO helps provide a good customer experience. WFO solutions allow companies to analyze their communications with customers to understand the root cause of their behavior. It helps them to frame strategies that retain customers in the long run. When you know your customers and their behavior, you can act faster to service their needs. When you respond to customers’ complaints faster and offer them improved satisfaction, they are most likely to return. Now that you understand how beneficial it can be to optimize the workforce let’s discuss some critical workforce optimization strategies to implement at your workplace. 5 Workforce optimization strategies The strategies we picked are tested to be effective in any work environment. Whether your company is in IT or manufacturing, you can trust these techniques for a more streamlined workforce. 1. Scheduling employees efficiently For the success of any organization, it is essential to schedule employees efficiently . Companies rely on manual workforce scheduling , which is time-consuming, prone to errors, and too tedious for HR. Software solutions like Truein provide a highly cohesive and efficient time and attendance management system for companies that can be used for scheduling employees efficiently. When a company increases operations like production and manufacturing, the staff gets busy. It makes it challenging to manage a workforce. Overtime can be expensive, and so can be regular absenteeism. You can be left with stalled production or too much workforce without proper scheduling. Scheduling employees is one of the most impactful workforce optimization strategies to ensure that enough employees are available on the floor during every shift. It will also ensure that workload is distributed optimally. Truein face recognition attendance system can help schedule employees for manufacturing, supply chain, warehouse, and retail companies. Our technology is cloud-based and uses AI to manage staff timing to keep HR managers informed of the workforce attendance in real-time. Managers and supervisors can use the Truein dashboard to assign tasks, manage leaves , and create or update shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Time management and attendance tracking For a company, time is of the essence. It is the most valuable asset to manage as it cannot be replaced or regained. All tasks and business operations must be completed on time. Managers and supervisors must know what’s going on and where the employees are at a given time. Again, there are many ways to achieve this. Modern attendance software applications can track time and attendance most accurately. Truein is one such leave and attendance management system that companies across industries can use for their time management needs. If you are facing a tough time deciding if you need an attendance system for workforce optimization, then ask yourself these questions: Are your employees regular with attendance? Are there measures to prevent malpractices like buddy punching and time theft ? How easy and fast is taking time and attendance management decisions like attendance regularization? Think of the more incredible picture here. With a time and attendance management system like Truein, HR managers can look at the scheduling numbers for the entire workforce. It enables them to use analytics to ensure all shifts are adequately staffed, and employees are allotted tasks proportionately. 3. Monitor performance and Task completion The above two workforce optimization strategies help ensure that scheduling and time tracking is in place, but making employees punctual is not enough; you also have to optimize how they use their time during the shift. You can use task tracking tools like Salesforce, Asana, Trello, and Jira. This software as a service (SaaS) solution helps improve employee productivity by tracking their progress. Depending on your business requirements, you can pick a real-time task tracking tool to monitor performance to keep managers informed of a worker’s performance at work. Monitoring the performance of the workforce is essential, but it must not feel too invasive as it can stress employees. Task tracking tools are low-stress solutions to gauge the performance of the force. Managers can control an employee’s performance as they have access to insights like how they spend their time at work, whether they take longer than anticipated to complete tasks, and whether they are meeting their day-to-day responsibilities. This workforce optimization technique can help HR managers determine if someone is struggling at their job or if an employee performs better than their peers. It is an incredible improvement over old-school Excel spreadsheets for tracking workforce performance. 4. Improve communications between managers and employees Effective communication between employees and managers is required for workplace success. It should not only be limited to just the job requirement and assignments. Genuinely productive and collaborative teams also communicate about improving the job’s success. For workforce optimization, it is essential to create open channels of employee-manager communication to help understand the company’s direction, goals, visions, and values. It will help them identify their work responsibilities to add value to the company. Implementing tools like Trello and Jira add value to the employee-manager communication. With such workforce optimization practices, managers can measure an employee’s performance and productivity and take measures to help them overcome challenges and improve. Practical WFO tools help break down employees’ strengths and weaknesses such that they can be prioritized as per the assignments. Ultimately, these tools allow HR managers to measure the outputs of the workforce and successfully increase productivity. This is not even the best part of improving employee-manager communication. More importantly, it helps managers and workers know the status of a project and eliminates the need to track down the level of individual contributions. 5. Adopt Cost-Effective Operations Cutting costs doesn’t mean implementing cheaper solutions but instead identifying the sources of wasteful spending and processes that do not align with the company’s goals. When you create solutions to implement cost-effective operations, you make it possible to reallocate resources and streamline processes necessary for the business, such as customer satisfaction and retention. It will eventually improve revenues. How do you make operations cost-effective? Dissect the customer feedback data to understand how their experience can be improved. Pay attention to what’s working but analyzing what’s not working is equally important. Do not stick to customer service because of the status quo. Ditch old habits if they are not working anymore. Workforce optimization is about being honest while looking inward and making tough decisions to deliver results. If you find instances where workers aren’t meeting all of their numbers, it’s time to make some serious adjustments. Conclusion Workforce optimization is multiple factors working together to boost the company’s productivity and help employees perform at their best. It is not an overnight task, but successful workforce optimization requires time to work out processes and systems that will serve the purpose in the long run. The objective is to streamline operations and model a sleeker workforce that will save much money and other resources. We hope this guide will serve as the right resource to initiate work optimization strategies in your company to cut costs and improve efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Understand the Split Shift Schedule: Effective Strategies, Benefits and Challenges Streamlining Construction Workforce Management: Tools and Strategies for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					Rotating Shift – A Complete Guide Rotating Shift – A Complete Guide May 15, 2024 As a manager, an essential part of your job is to put the best schedule to allow workers to be more productive without overworking. But scheduling can get tricky when you move beyond the standard 9-to-5 work shift to accommodate increased demand. As the demand for production is increasing, and you need to make complex schedules, many things must be considered. If you cannot correctly schedule shifts , workers might complain. Poorly designed shifts can cost physical and mental pain to the employees. Also, a few absences can fail the entire shift without proper planning. HR managers need to learn about rotating shifts and how to prepare one effectively. In this article, we are about to discuss how to create a rotating shift schedule depending on the company’s nature of work. We will focus on tips on how you can create a rotational scheduling system that protects workers’ health and productivity and benefits your organization in the long run. Table of Contents What are Rotating Shifts? Why is a rotating shift required? How do rotating shifts work? 4 Different Types of Rotating Shifts 1. The Pitman Shift Schedule 2. The DuPont Shift Schedule 3. The 2-2-3-2-2-3 shift schedule 4. Southern swing schedule Rotating shift schedule examples Which industries use rotating shifts? Advantages of rotating shifts Disadvantages of rotating shifts How to handle rotating shifts effectively? Use Shift Scheduling Software Conclusion What are Rotating Shifts? Rotating shifts are simply schedules that regularly change over time. The most common example of rotating shifts is how workers work in the manufacturing industry in the country. Most production workers have rotating shifts in which they work six days a week between night and day shifts. In other sectors, such as construction and mining, workers work eight-hour shifts that rotate from 6 AM to 2 PM, 2 PM to 10 PM, and 10 PM to 6 AM. The workers switch between the shifts weekly, so they are not overworked, and the production continues without a break. Rotating shifts is supposed to help workers have a better work-life balance, but more often, it isolates them. An employee rotation schedule requires workers to reconfigure family responsibilities and reset sleep schedules, making it difficult to have a social life and connect with friends. This can lead to isolation and a lack of human connection. HR managers must be careful while creating rotating shift schedules as researchers suggest that poorly planned rotating shifts can cause severe mental and physical health risks such as weight gain, insomnia, depression, and anxiety. Given the magnitude of the dangers involved for workers working in a rotating shift, managers must do everything possible to ensure the safety and well-being of the employees. It is interesting to note that even with such risk associated with rotating shifts, a large workforce works in such schedules. According to a study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , an estimated 2.4% of the working population works rotating shifts. Let’s examine rotating shifts’ ins and outs to understand why companies make employee rotation schedules. Why is a rotating shift required? For many businesses, it is vital to maintain 24-hour operations to deliver customer service. Industries such as transportation, manufacturing, hospitality, customer service, construction , etc., usually require staffing outside the traditional 9-to-5 schedule. These organizations rely on rotating shifts to meet their staffing demands. Rotating shifts are also required when employees need to be trained about different facets of the business. For instance, in manufacturing industries, employees might need to be prepared to work on the floor, do maintenance work, and if the situation requires operating CNC machines. Making them work through rotating shifts trains them in all these domains. How do rotating shifts work? A rotating schedule does imply changed shifts, but it is done cyclically. Your company can schedule a morning shift, an afternoon shift, an evening shift, and an overnight shift. You can create an employee rotation schedule to allow workers to work each shift over time so you can maintain business operations 24/7. A rotating schedule means that workers will work in a particular shift over a set amount of time. It depends on the business nature and preference of how workers are rotated through the shifts. Managers can decide how to make a rotating schedule – whether they want to put employees on a rotating schedule in which they work the same shift on different days (rotation of days), or they want employees to work in various shifts (rotation of time). Here it would be best if you remembered that the more cyclical the rotating shift would be, the easier it will be for employees to balance their work and personal life. 4 Different Types of Rotating Shifts Over the years, human resource professionals have created several types of rotating schedules. Depending on the management practice, your company can benefit from one or more types of rotating shifts. It’s a good idea for HR managers to familiarize themselves with several types of rotating shifts. This gives them a view to understand various styles of employee rotation schedules and choose one that best works for their organization. 1. The Pitman Shift Schedule In the Pitman shift schedule, the employees get every other weekend off to have time to participate in some family and social events during regular hours. Here the ships are 12 hours long and have four teams working in rotation. To avoid overworking the employees, the workers usually work no more than three days in a row. Here is an example of the Pitman shift schedule pattern: Two shifts on, followed by two days off Two shifts on, followed by three days off Three shifts on, followed by two days off When the two-week cycle is complete, workers switch timing; that is, the workers start working night shifts and vice versa. 2. The DuPont Shift Schedule Like the Pitman rotating shift, the DuPont shift schedule also involves four teams working 12-hour shifts, but the employee rotation schedule is a bit more complex. In DuPont, this shift rotates from day to night in a four-week cycle. Here’s an example: Four-night shifts, then three days off Three-day shifts, then one day off Three-night shifts, then three days off Four-day shifts, then seven days off Here you will notice that there are consecutive offs because the scheduling might be a bit hectic, but the DuPont system allows workers enough time to recharge by offering multiple days off. At the end of the cycle, these off culminate into a week-long break. Managers should be careful with the DuPont shift schedule. Here workers get more flexibility in their daily lives and spend more time with family and friends, but the trade-off is more demanding hours at work. It might suit some nation workers who don’t mind working extra hard instead of more time off. 3. The 2-2-3-2-2-3 shift schedule The 2-2-3-2-2-3 schedule is a rotating shift that follows a 28-day cycle. In this schedule, 12-hour shifts are rotated in the following pattern: Three-day shifts Two days off Two-day shifts Three days off Two-night shifts Two days off Three-night shifts Two days off Two-night shifts Three days off Two-day shifts Two days off The benefit of this rotating schedule is that worker gets frequent time off without having to work more than three consecutive days. Examples of the rotating shift schedule of this style can be found in the construction and healthcare industry, where employees have demanding 12-hour shifts followed by multiple days off. 4. Southern swing schedule The Southern swing rotation shift is a schedule that uses three eight-hour shifts throughout the month for four teams. Here is how this employee rotation schedule works: Seven-day shifts Two days off Seven-day shifts Two days off Seven-night shifts Three days off One of the most significant benefits of the Southern swing schedule is that workers have to work eight-hour and 10- or 12-hour shifts like other rotating shift schedule examples. Rotating shift schedule examples Managers are only limited by their imagination to configure rotating shifts. There can be hundreds of ways to manage employee rotation schedules. You can choose to schedule it from day to day, week to week, or month to month. However, the most common practice is to create a rotating shift schedule as eight-hour work shifts, 9 or 10-hour work shifts, and 12-hour work shifts. An eight-hour employee rotation schedule is the best for companies within staffing to create three teams that can work in rotating shifts. It allows companies to keep productivity high without compromising the health or ability of the workers. Managers can schedule eight-hour shifts in the following ways: Morning: 6 AM to 2 PM Evening: 2 PM to 10 PM Night: 10 PM to 6 AM Morning: 7 AM to 3 PM Evening: 3 PM to 11 PM Night: 11 PM to 7 AM Morning: 8 AM to 4 PM Evening: 4 PM to 12 AM Night: 12 AM to 8 AM For industries where workers must be on the floor for longer hours, 9- and 10-hour rotating shifts are good. Here there is an overlapping between two teams of workers so that the relieving team can hand over work to the reporting team in time. Here are some examples of 9 and 10-hour work shifts. Morning: 5 AM to 2 PM Afternoon: 12 PM to 9 PM Night: 7 PM to 5 AM Morning: 5 AM to 3 PM Afternoon: 1 PM to 11 PM Night: 10 PM to 8 AM The simplest to manage and schedule is the 12-hour rotation shift. You can schedule it as a day or night shift only. For example: Day: 6 AM to 6 PM Night: 6 PM to 6 AM Which industries use rotating shifts? Companies that require 24/7 staffing use rotating shifts to ensure that the business operations are running smoothly at all hours without overworking the workforce. Some of the common industries that implement rotating shifts are: 1. Manufacturing: Often, the manufacturing industries require workers such as assemblers and production managers to work shifts to increase output. Here is a complete guide on scheduling shifts in manufacturing . 2. Healthcare: Doctors, nurses, lab technicians, and hospital administrators are required to work in rotating shifts to ensure that medical care is available for patients around the clock. 3. Transportation: Logistics companies require employees to work in shifts to make their services available to the customers at all hours. 4. Retail employees: Sales and marketing staff at retail stores and 24/7 convenience stores often work on rotating shifts. 5. Hospitality: Hotels and resorts operate 24/7, and to offer undisruptive services and accommodate guests, hospitality employees follow rotating shift schedules. Here is a complete guide on creating 24 hour shift schedules . Advantages of rotating shifts Rotating shifts can benefit both companies and workers, provided managers know how to create rotating shift schedules that can positively boost productivity. There are several benefits of rotating shift schedule, including: Increased output productivity Unbiased and consistent sharing of unpopular shifts Efficient sharing of skill sets among various shifts Better interaction and relationship between employees working in different shifts Increased customer service and convenience Skill development of the employees as they perform additional tasks in extra shifts Increased business operations knowledge More variety in tasks keeps the workforce engaged Better work-life balance Disadvantages of rotating shifts Some workers prefer consistent fixed work schedules and plan their life around them. Putting such workers in rotating shifts disturb their lives. Keeping track of the rotating shifts and scheduling other tasks of the day needs regular attention. There are mental and physical impacts of working late shifts or frequent shift changes on workers’ health. Forced circadian rhythm changes due to night shifts can cause sleep deprivation and gastrointestinal and cardiovascular disorders. How to handle rotating shifts effectively? Rotating shifts are not a challenge for the workforce but managers as well. There are so many factors to consider. Most HR managers recommend that rather than the evening to day rotating shift schedule, turning shifts from day to evening to overnight is better. After a plan for the employee rotation schedule is made, it is essential to provide training to prepare workers for the rotating shift, such as going to bed early, taking power naps, frequent 5-minutes breaks, etc. Ask employees for their shift preferences and try to accommodate these requests whenever possible. Use Shift Scheduling Software It is challenging to keep track of rotating shift schedules as the changes are frequent, and you must keep track of all the employees. Therefore, it is required to use a shift scheduling software such as Truein that can help with shift management. Truein is a complete time and attendance system with shift management that makes it incredibly easy to maintain rotating shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Here are Truein’s advanced features that make shift scheduling a breeze. 1. Schedule Shifts Easily and Effectively Create effective schedules within minutes. The staff can view any changes or updates in the shift schedule through the app. 2. Allocate Shifts in Bulk or Individually Allocate shifts bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changing number of staff in each shift. 3. Auto Allotment of Shift Truein’s staff scheduling software enables shifts to get automatically allocated based on the In and Out time of the staff. No more manual staff scheduling. 4. Manage Multiple Shift Patterns Manage both rotating shifts and fixed shift patterns. Truein shift management software manages round-the-clock shifts. You can continue with a particular schedule for a week or month or choose a time frame as per your need. 5. Planned vs Actual Shift View Web dashboards for admins to access and manage all shift-related information, check which staff is working on which shift, compare Planned vs Actual Shift, and optimize workforce utilization. 6. Multiple Customizable Shift-Related Policies Set custom polices for early out, Late Entry, or Grace period based on in/out time. Admin approval required if staff clocks In after the grace period. Sign up for an absolutely free demo to explore how Truein can completely automate the shift scheduling process for your business. Sign up here. Conclusion For some companies rotating shifts is a necessary evil. Good managers can help eliminate employee shift rotation’s physical and mental side effects by adequately planning and scheduling shifts using software like Truein. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 15, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 15, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 15, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 15, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 15, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manufacturing Shift Schedules: A Complete Guide Effective Shift Management: A Complete Guide Shift Differential Pay: A Complete Guide for Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form