Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State »  					Massachusetts Paid Time Off Laws: All About MA PTO Laws Massachusetts Paid Time Off Laws: All About MA PTO Laws May 28, 2024 Massachusetts paid time off (PTO) legal framework ensures that employers and employees exist in a fair work environment. As an employer in the state, you must be aware of MA PTO laws not only for legal requirements but also for facilitating a positive work environment, retaining talent, and ensuring compliance with the state’s labor regulations. Compliance with these Massachusetts PTO laws helps businesses avoid costly legal disputes, maintain a motivated and productive workforce, and establish a reputation as a responsible employer. This article explores MA PTO laws and provides an overview of various types of leaves and PTO payouts at termination. Table of Contents What are Massachusetts PTO Laws related to various kinds of leaves? 1. Vacation time-off 2. Sick leave 3. Paid sick leave 4. Accrual of sick time 5. Bereavement Leave 6. Jury Duty Leave 5. Military Leave 6. Voting Leave Eligibility for paid sick leave in Massachusetts Use of earned sick leave Notice and documentation Carryover of earned sick time Payout of unused earned sick time at termination What happens to PTO Payout at termination? Unlimited Paid Time Off and Wage and Hour Laws Statutory Provisions Addressing Vacation Pay Payment of accrued, unused vacation on termination Massachusetts State Holidays 2024 How does Truein help with paid time-off management? Conclusion What are Massachusetts PTO Laws related to various kinds of leaves? 1. Vacation time-off Massachusetts does not require employers to provide employees with paid or unpaid vacation time. Still, most employers offer paid vacation as a benefit to attract and retain employees. However, as there is no regulation, vacation time off policies typically vary from employer to employer. Also, if employers provide paid or unpaid vacation time off, they should share all the related policies with employees, including accrual rates, usage restrictions, and payout rules. To maintain fairness and consistency, employers should communicate their vacation policies and apply them uniformly to all employees. Additionally, paid time off laws in Massachusetts don’t mandate vacation days; however, if agreed, employers must pay out vacation time upon an employee’s termination. 2. Sick leave Massachusetts observes the federal Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), which mandates eligible employees unpaid sick leave. Employees working for a company with 50 or more workers at one location and working for the current employer for at least 12 months or worked 1,250 hours the previous year. Employees can use sick time for their illness or medical needs or to care for a family member. 3. Paid sick leave Massachusetts is the third state in the U.S. to guarantee paid sick time off for employees. It mandates that all private employers provide paid sick leave to employees. However, small business owners are not required to pay for sick time off. Paid sick leave in Massachusetts is governed by the Earned Sick Time Law, which aims to provide eligible employees with paid time off to address their own or a family member’s illness, medical needs, or issues related to domestic violence or abuse. 4. Accrual of sick time All eligible employees in Massachusetts accrue sick time at a rate of one hour of earned sick time for every 30 hours worked. However, this accrual is not infinite, and an employee can accrue up to 40 hours of earned sick time per calendar year. 5. Bereavement Leave Employers in Massachusetts are not required to offer bereavement leave for employees. Bereavement leave is time off granted to employees following the death of a family member or loved one and is not legally required under Massachusetts labor regulations. Employers have sole discretion in offering bereavement leave as part of their employee benefits. Most employers still provide bereavement leave to support their employees during difficult times. 6. Jury Duty Leave Massachusetts law recognizes the importance of jury service in the judicial system and mandates that employers provide time off for serving on a jury. It applies to most employees in Massachusetts, including full-time, part-time, and temporary employees. The length of jury duty leave can vary depending on the specific case, court, and trial duration. Jurors are typically required to serve for the trial, and employers cannot discriminate or take any adverse actions against employees serving on a jury. Massachusetts law requires employers to provide regular wages to employees for the first three days of jury duty. After that, the government will pay the jury $50 a day to the serving employees. 5. Military Leave Massachusetts has laws to protect the employment rights of members of the National Guard and other reserve components of the U.S. Armed Forces. These laws ensure that employees who serve in the military can return to their civilian jobs without adverse consequences. The state implements the federal Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights Act (USERRA) for military leave. In addition to USERRA, Massachusetts law protects employees serving in active military duty from any discrimination at the workplace once they join back. The length of military leave can vary depending on the specific deployment or service requirements. Employees may be called for short-term training or extended deployments, and their job protection rights apply accordingly. 6. Voting Leave Massachusetts law provides employees in specific industries unpaid time off to vote during certain elections. This includes employees in mercantile, manufacturing, and mechanical industries. Employers in these sectors should provide workers with paid time off in between work hours to cast their vote during elections. The specific conditions and requirements for voting leave may vary, but employees should be able to exercise their right to vote without fear of negative repercussions from their employers. Eligibility for paid sick leave in Massachusetts Paid sick leave law applies to all employers with 11 or more employees. Employers in Massachusetts with fewer than 11 employees must provide unpaid sick leave under the law. All types of employees are eligible for paid sick leave, including part-time and full-time employees and seasonal and temporary workers. Use of earned sick leave All employees can use their accrued earned sick time for various purposes, including: Their illness or medical needs include routine medical appointments, treatment for chronic conditions, and recovery from diseases or injuries. To tend to medical care for a family member. Employees can use earned sick time to care for a spouse, domestic partner, child, parent, or parent of a spouse or domestic partner who requires care due to illness, medical needs, or medical appointments. Issues related to domestic violence or abuse include seeking medical or legal assistance, attending court hearings, or participating in safety planning. Notice and documentation Employees are expected to notify employers to maintain business operations without staff shortage. That is why employers can require employees to provide reasonable notice of their intention to use earned sick time when necessary. Also, employers may require documentation for paid sick leave if the earned sick time is used for more than 24 consecutive work hours or 3 working days. However, employees are not required to disclose the cause of sick leave or medical condition in the documentation. Carryover of earned sick time Employees can carry over 40 hours of unused earned sick time to the following calendar year. Employers can also frontload 40 hours of paid sick time at the start of the year so they don’t have to allow carryover of earned sick time. Payout of unused earned sick time at termination Massachusetts law does not require employers to pay employees unused earned sick time upon termination. Employers are prohibited from taking any adverse action against employees who exercise their rights under the Massachusetts Earned Sick Time Law. What happens to PTO Payout at termination? Earned paid time off is termed wages, and Massachusetts employers should pay employees unused PTO upon termination. Any unused sick leave is not mandatory and must be paid in the final paycheck. The payout of accrued, unused vacation days at termination in Massachusetts is generally subject to the policies and practices established by the employer. Employers should have a clear and well-documented PTO policy that outlines their stance on PTO payout at termination. This policy should be communicated to employees. In some cases, the terms of PTO payout may be governed by employment contracts, collective bargaining agreements, or other legally binding agreements between the employer and employee. These agreements should be followed in case of termination. Unlimited Paid Time Off and Wage and Hour Laws Unlimited PTO policies are gaining traction in Massachusetts. It allows employees to take as much time off as needed but has a reverse effect as employees take less vacation due to uncertainty about acceptable limits. Additionally, offering unlimited PTO complicates payout during termination. Employers make the case that as there is a complete PTO policy, employees have no PTO days that have been “accrued.” On the other hand, terminated employees argue that employers should be obligated to pay the unused PTO just because they offer unlimited PTO. Offering unlimited PTO does not affect an exempt employee’s exempt status as long as they continue to receive their full salary for any week they perform work, with limited exceptions. In Massachusetts, employers are generally not required to pay out accrued, unused vacation time at termination, regardless of whether the PTO policy is unlimited. However, the policy should be communicated to employees. Statutory Provisions Addressing Vacation Pay In Massachusetts, employers should treat vacation time as wages. The state requires employers to pay out unused PTO to their employees. While it is at the employer’s discretion to decide whether or not to offer paid vacation benefits to their employees, if they agree to provide paid time off, they must abide by the agreed policies. If an employer provides paid vacation, they typically establish rules for how employees accrue vacation time and how it can be used. These rules should be communicated clearly to employees. Payment of accrued, unused vacation on termination MA PTO laws are clear on the payment of accrued, unused vacation on termination. State law does require employers to pay out accrued vacation time to employees upon termination if it is agreed in the employment contract. Massachusetts law does not mandate accrued sick leave time payout upon termination. Instead, it is left to the employer’s discretion to determine their policy on this matter. The terms of vacation payout at termination may also be governed by employment contracts, collective bargaining agreements, or other legally binding agreements between the employer and employee. Employers should adhere to these agreements when making termination payments. This is why employers should communicate their vacation policies, including the treatment of accrued vacation at termination, to employees. Massachusetts State Holidays 2024 Here is a tentative Massachusetts state holiday calendar for 2024. Please note that these dates are subject to change or may be observed by certain employers or institutions on different days. Holidays falling on Saturday are observed on Friday; holidays that fall on Sunday are observed on Monday. Holiday Date in 2024 General Date New Year’s Day 2024 Monday, January 1 January 1 Martin Luther King, Jr. Monday, January 15 3rd Monday in January Washington’s Birthday Monday, February 19 3rd Monday in February Patriots Day Monday, April 15 3rd Monday in April Memorial Day Monday, May 27 Last Monday in May Juneteenth Wednesday, June 19 June 19 Independence Day Thursday, July 4 July 4 Labor Day Monday, September 2 1st Monday in September Columbus Day Monday, October 14 2nd Monday in October Veterans Day Monday, November 11 November 11 Thanksgiving Day Thursday, November 28 4th Thursday of November Christmas Day Wednesday, Dec. 25 December 25 How does Truein help with paid time-off management? Truein is a modern time and attendance tracking software with a robust leave management system . It offers a range of features and benefits to help businesses effectively manage their employees’ paid time off (PTO). Its automated PTO leave request mechanism allows employees to submit PTO requests using the Truein smartphone app. Managers and supervisors can directly review and approve the requests from their applications. This streamlines the request process and ensures that requests are properly documented. Its cloud-based and centralized data storage allows employees and managers to access real-time leave balances to check how much PTO they have accrued and how much they have used. This transparency reduces confusion and ensures that employees have accurate information. Furthermore, Truein has over 70 customizable policy templates. Employers can configure the templates to align with their company’s specific PTO policies and rules. Whether you have a standard accrual system, unlimited PTO, or other unique policies, Truein can adapt to your needs. The system automates PTO accrual calculations based on your chosen policies and tracks accrual over time. This reduces the risk of errors and ensures employees receive the correct amount of PTO. Policy creation and customization can ensure your company complies with relevant labor laws and regulations, such as accrual caps or mandatory leave. Truein integrates with most payroll software, ensuring that PTO balances and payouts are accurately reflected in payroll processing. Robust reporting and analytics features also allow HR and management to generate reports on PTO usage, trends, and employee attendance. These insights can inform decision-making and resource planning. Learn more about Truein’s leave management features . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Our guide on Massachusetts Paid Time Off (PTO) laws provides an elaborate overview for employers to maintain legal compliance within their company’s policies and practices. It is crucial to follow Massachusetts’ specific laws governing all types of leaves, including vacation, sick leave, and termination payouts. Additionally, using PTO management systems, Truein helps organizations manage paid time off efficiently, reduce administrative burden, and enhance employee satisfaction. Truein ensures compliance with company policies and labor laws, streamlines communication between employees and managers, and offers valuable insights for decision-making and planning. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Virginia Paid Time Off Laws: All About Virginia PTO Laws New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws Paid Time Off (PTO) Guide- Everything you need to know about what’s PTO Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein eliminated proxy attendance & traceability issues at SJ Contracts Customer Stories Sites 22 Staff 6000+ Country India Industry Construction/Remote About SJ Contracts SJ Contracts is a name construction companies reckon with. They provide solution-based construction services that add value to industrial, commercial, and residential projects. Established in Pune in 1990, they have nearly 22 active sites, and new locations are added from time to time. Apart from their office staff, they deal with a lot of unorganized sector labor. Girish Nimbalkar AGM HR SJ Contracts We have been using the Truein attendance system at our 22 sites for over 6,000 staff since August 2018. Before Truein, using a time and attendance system at our construction sites was a big challenge. It is an excellent solution. We’ve found it to be very user-friendly and easy to use. Truein has built-in customization options and provides multiple real-time reports. Individual users can quickly generate the required reports, irrespective of their location. Challenges SJ contracts used a swipe card system along with paper-pen manual syncs for attendance. For a long time, they faced the problem of proxy attendance. Also, their attendance system did not provide them with real-time reports. They had multiple sites, and since there were no centralized controls, attendance tracking was tedious. They wanted to bring about traceability, transparency, and: Find a solution to the process of manual on-boarding of new workers daily Allow managers to check attendance reports in real-time to maximize productivity Make their ever-changing staff accountable through a stringent attendance system Get answers to strategic questions like: • How many workers are at a specific site at any particular time? • How many workers are changing frequently on a daily or weekly basis? • How many person-hours are being committed at each site? Solution The company implemented Truein attendance and benefited from the 70+ in-built features. Face recognition based attendance for completevisibility Self onboarding feature that makes the registration process of new workers fast and hassle-free Blacklisting feature to bar entry of delisted agencies and ex-workers Web-based detailed dashboard as well as app-based reporting for real-time updates on each site at one central location Reports for detailed analysis and estimations of staffing needs Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein turned SJ Contracts’ manual and card-based attendance system into one holistic face recognition based attendance system, solving their issues at multiple levels. The high traceability linked everything from attendance to payroll and compliance The rigor of manual systems was replaced with intelligent technology Contract staff agencies were made more accountable through transparent reporting Managers at different levels could manage their subordinates through custom reports Contract staff needs could be estimated accurately Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein's robust face attendance solution solved the issue of buddy punching for Pantheon Customer Stories Sites 1 Staff 50 Country United Arab Emirates (UAE) Industry Real Estate/Multiple Sites About Pantheon Pantheon Development is the real estate marketing arm of the Pantheon Group. Based out of the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Pantheon Development operates across Asia, the Middle East, and Europe. Challenges Pantheon was using a fingerprint biometric system and access cards for their staff’s attendance. They were facing issues related to buddy punching . Besides, due to the pandemic, they wanted to upgrade to an attendance system that is touchless and compliant with covid standards. The organization wanted a solution to prevent buddy punching and help them save indirect expenses. They also expected the attendance solution to: Provide accurate time and attendance and capture the correct clock in and out time Mark attendance only when the staff is in the designated location Manage potential payroll issues with the use of detailed system-generated reports Provide policies for OT calculations, leaves, and half days Protect the staff and safeguard the office premises from Covid-19 Solution They implemented Truein Time and Attendance, which helped to fix their pain points around the attendance of their staff. Truein offered them: Face recognition based attendance for complete transparency. Geo fencing feature to ensure the staff marks their attendance only from the assigned locations A touchless system, mask detection, health declaration, etc. for covid compliant entry Accurate and comprehensive reports for analysis Full-fledged leave monitoring system. Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein helped Pantheon fix the buddy punching issue and eradicated the scope of any manipulation. Truein's robust and accurate face-based attendance is spoofing proof. It eliminated the problem of proxy attendance while clocking in/out. This, in turn, ensured that the staff got paid for the time they actually worked. Powerful Geo fencing feature helped HR efficiently track their staff. Touchless attendance with covid safety features like mask screening and health declaration helped minimize the spread of covid 19. Detailed reports generated with automated calculations and policies gave them a 360 degrees overview of the attendance pattern of their staff and also helped in payroll processing. Truein helped to improve their overall productivity. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Vishal Mega Mart uses Truein to manage their 400+ locations centrally and maximize staff productivity Customer Stories Sites 450+ Staff 15000+ Country India Industry Retail/Multiple Stores About Vishal Mega Mart Vishal Retail Ltd. has a strong presence in manufacturing and retailing readymade garments (apparel), non-apparels, and various FMCG products in India. The jewel in Vishal Group’s crown is its flagship company Vishal Retail Ltd., which is engaged in hypermarket stores with an average area of 25,000 to 30,000 sq. ft. through an impressive chain of 450+ fully integrated stores in around 400+ cities across India. The retail store facilitates one-stop-shop convenience for its customers and caters to the entire family’s needs. Ashish Banga CHRO Vishal Mega Mart We switched to Truein 2 years back (Mar-2020). Our staff’s safety, convenience, and well-being are our key priorities. The Truein team partnered with us to ensure seamless implementation and integration of the Truein system and helped us to manage our attendance requirements for a large, diverse workforce spread across India. I highly recommend Truein for any large distributed workforce that needs a robust and reliable system to manage its time and attendance processes. Challenges Vishal Mega Mart used biometric machines and manual offline systems for attendance across their stores. This led to mismanagement of attendance data and a lack of transparency. Also, as their staff was frequently transferred from one store to another, keeping a clear record of their attendance data was a cumbersome task. Furthermore, collating reports from different systems into one centralized reporting system resulted in errors and data mismatches. They wanted a uniform time and attendance solution across their stores that can: Be centrally managed by the team at the head office Handle the staff transfer scenario Provide real-time and comprehensive reports with a single click Help implement different policies (half-day, weekly off, etc.) across all the stores Solution Truein Time and Attendance solution helped Vishal Mega Mart to: Implement a policies across its stores Manage staff transfer along with a provision to track their attendance history Have access to real-time updates of the entire organization’s attendance on the web dashboard and the app Generate detailed reports for analysis and further processing Set customized policies for all their stores that can be managed at their head office Truein Roll Out: Truein went live across all the 450+ stores of Vishal Mega Mart in a single day. More than 4000 users signed up and registered within 24 hours of Truein’s launch. The entire organization went live in 7 days. Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein’s face recognition-based Time and Attendance solution solved Vishal Megamart’s attendance issues at multiple levels: Truein offered a user-friendly experience to the staff of Vishal Mega Mart. The staff transfer process was simplified. The attendance data at the previous location of the staff was readily available in the system. Truein is mobile/tablet-based and involves no hardware implementation cost. Multiple reports could be easily fetched in a single click. Truein's system led to greater transparency and accountability across the organization. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form