Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Facility Management Time and Attendance »  					Facilities Management Improvement Strategies and Best Practices Facilities Management Improvement Strategies and Best Practices July 23, 2024 Irrespective of the type of industry, facilities management skills are essential. It may be true that your business is unique in its operations or staffing requirement. Still, improving facility management can help you to improve your organization’s overall operating cost and can facilitate employees to work more productively. You have to accept that facility management is an ever-evolving process. The facility demands change as your business grows, or new roles and procedures are added. This is why facility managers must stay up-to-date with facility management best practices. Here we are sharing some ideas on how to improve facility management services. Table of Contents 6 Facilities Management Improvement Ideas 1. Lower operation costs with preventive measures What is preventive maintenance? 2. Set a customized facilities management operations plan that fits your organization's needs 3. Communicate with your employees 4. Set clear definitions for facilities' work practices 5. Develop employee skills 6. Automate and streamline facilities management operations Conclusion 6 Facilities Management Improvement Ideas 1. Lower operation costs with preventive measures One of the core responsibilities of your role as a facility manager will be to strive for optimum efficiency of operation of all the assets to cut the maintenance cost to a minimum. One of the critical facilities management improvement strategies to employ here is to implement preventive maintenance. What is preventive maintenance? Preventive maintenance is proactive actions taken by facility managers to extend the life of equipment within a facility and reduce downtime. It is opposed to reactive maintenance when you respond to any malfunction, but you must stop the operations from doing maintenance. It costs revenue and productivity. You need to invest in intelligent solutions like IoT for facility management to track metrics and access maintenance schedule KPI analytics that help you make data-driven decisions and reduce reactive maintenance costs. Organizations that effectively deploy preventive maintenance plans reportedly save 12%-18% on annual maintenance expenses. Preventive measures also ensure that your facilities provide a safe work environment. If left unattended, faulty equipment can cause workplace accidents, endangering staff. Furthermore, facility maintenance managers must keep things charted to avoid later overwhelming maintenance. It would help if you routinely replaced old hardware and equipment like lights, wiring, and motors to fix wear and tear and keep things running smoothly. Also, adopt eco-friendly practices like using LED lights, biodegradable materials, and saving power and water. 2. Set a customized facilities management operations plan that fits your organization's needs Facility management is not the same for every organization. This is why you must access your business model to understand your organization’s priorities – preventive maintenance, event scheduling, asset management, workforce training, etc. The workflow you create for facility management must be tailored to accommodate your organization’s unique facility maintenance needs. Discuss how to improve facility management services for your business with supervisors and consultants. There is no one-size-fits-all solution. When creating customized facility management workflows, you can capture, track, and report all the crucial metrics surrounding the facility’s processes. It provides you with essential tools that are required for operation success. A customized facility management operations plan also ensures that all services are aligned with the organization’s best interest. 3. Communicate with your employees Communication is the key to success in every aspect of business operations, and facility management is no exception. Clear and effective communication is one of the essential facilities management improvement ideas. Communication among team members, inter-department communication, and communication with outside vendors must be aware of what is going on in your facility for a smooth workflow. All the stakeholders must be updated about the changes within your facilities. You must communicate with your employees if any changes are made to the facility processes. Any emergency repairs must be notified to all stakeholders. As a facility manager, you must always be open to listening to the workers’ concerns and be ready to answer their queries. Proper communication is vital for facility management because: It improves the overall productivity and accountability of the teams by informing them about the current state of affairs at the facility. You maintain cordial contractor and vendor relationships when communicating planned maintenance, service requests, training programs, equipment changes, etc. Eliminate any confusion that can result in unnecessary tasks allowing your workers to focus on facility management. Transparent communication is how you encourage workers to participate in the conversation regarding important decisions. It is also how you attract honest employee feedback that can play an essential role in facility management improvement. 4. Set clear definitions for facilities' work practices Your workers are your greatest asset. You need to ask yourself how to improve facilities management by optimizing their performance repeatedly. As a start, you can create and share facility work practices with the employees, so they know their roles and responsibilities. Be descriptive about their functions and how their role affects the others within the team. Also, the impact their performance makes on the overall efficiency of the facility. Employees should be provided with detailed policies on work schedules and attendance. There must not be any confusion among the workers. Company expectations from them should be conveyed. Employees should be aware of any disciplinary actions that can be taken against them if they fail to comply with attendance policies . As a facility manager, you should ensure that all work and shift schedule policies comply with federal, state, and local employment and labor laws. You can also use a labor attendance app to track your contractual workers’ attendance. All of this is a necessity to provide facility management at its best. 5. Develop employee skills A lot is going on in the facility management industry. New technologies are making it much more efficient and sustainable to operate the facility. Internet of Things is a breakthrough technology impacting all aspects of facility management. When you have such new-age facilities management improvement ideas, you have to make arrangements to develop your employees’ skills to utilize these technologies fully. Evaluate the skill level of your existing workforce to create an upskilling plan to develop their skills. Your workers are your greatest assets which is why instead of looking for replacements, you should focus on training employees to adapt to the new technology revolution in the facility management industry. More and more facilities are adopting enterprise asset management software to manage employee experience. If you plan to do the same, you must take feedback from your employees before upgrading the tech. 6. Automate and streamline facilities management operations Streamlining workflow is one essential facility management best practice. You can create customized workflows for your facilities using automated software systems to maintain consistency and workforce availability and improve facility efficiency. Many facility management companies invest in automating processes like HVAC systems and facility lighting. It increases the efficiency of the facility operations. HVAC systems connected directly to the building automation system allow you to control heating and cooling settings within facilities based on occupancy. It leads to better energy utilization. Similarly, smart lighting that can be operated as-needed basis makes facilities more energy efficient and further cuts operating costs. Furthermore, facility managers can be facilitated with automated attendance and shift scheduling software to eliminate paperwork. Truein is a complete employee attendance and scheduling system that is cloud-based. Its hardwareless architecture makes it highly suitable for facility management. Your employees can download the Truein app on their smartphones. There is no need to install biometric systems or card punching machines all over the facility. Employees can record attendance using the geofencing time and attendance system . It also gives facility managers the option to track facility workers in real time. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion The facilities management improvement strategies we have listed here are at the forefront of workplace modernization. Digital tech is quickly influencing the facility management industry, reshaping everything from how space is managed to the workforce trained and reduced operation costs. With so many new facility management solutions entering the field so frequently, as a manager, you need to stay updated with what new ideas can improve the operational efficiency of your facility. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Employee Offboarding: 10 Best Practices for An Effective Employee Offboarding Process Managing Seasonal/Temporary Workers in Construction: Best Practices for Efficiency How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It July 23, 2024 For any company, labor and time management are two core operations that decide its success. Time is a valuable resource, and proper time management can help improve productivity and profit. The lack of understanding of time management in the workplace leads to inefficiency. If your organization frequently struggles with employee efficiency and productivity issues, then poor time management can be the reason. This article will explain the importance of time management in a business environment and explore ways companies can prioritize effective time management. Table of Contents What is Time Management? 4 importance of time management in a workplace 1. It helps to deliver work on time 2. Increase employee productivity and efficiency 3. Reduces stress and anxiety of employees 4. Balance employees' work and life How to improve time management in the workplace 1. Plan all your work and task well in time 2. Prioritize the important work 3. Stop multitasking 4. Cut off all your distraction 5. Use a time and attendance management software How can Truein help? Conclusion What is Time Management? Time management is planning and managing an organization’s work schedule to help boost productivity. It helps plan and prioritize tasks so that most critical tasks are completed within the deadline without overly exerting pressure on workers. Time management aims to ensure that the workers utilize time to accomplish the tasks they are given with less effort. HR managers are responsible for controlling the shift schedule ; time management can give them the much-needed capabilities to make the work environment productive and achieve better productivity in less time and without stress. When workers slack off at work, or there are task delays for no reason, time management can help increase efficiency and plug any productivity loopholes. 4 importance of time management in a workplace 1. It helps to deliver work on time The importance of time management is evident from how easy it becomes to deliver work without delays. Proper time management is highly effective in managing the workload and ensuring that workers are not feeling stressed at work. Often when the managers and supervisors are not managing time effectively, they fail to provide a smooth workflow for workers. It is one of the most significant reasons why workers feel burnout. When there are time-boxed tasks, workers follow the structure and accomplish the allotted task within the desired timeframe. This results in productivity and efficiency without causing anxiety or confusion. Companies that can help workers deliver work on time can increase their revenues multifold. 2. Increase employee productivity and efficiency Practical time management skills are necessary to be productive and efficient at work. Companies that can ensure effective time management within the workforce can deliver quality results without compromising the quality of the workplace environment. Another importance of time management skills is that it helps employees finish a task as early as possible without overstretching themselves. The organization’s overall productivity goes up, resulting in reduced overtime expenditure. Effective time management requires managers and supervisors to prioritize tasks as per importance and urgency. It helps workers to focus on an important task that improves their work quality. The improved focus builds momentum that ensures workers are productive throughout the shifts. 3. Reduces stress and anxiety of employees The overwhelmed workforce is neither productive nor focused on providing quality tasks. Poor time management often leads to lacking shift scheduling. Workers might be working too many hours frequently, affecting their productivity and well-being. Companies with poor shift scheduling suffer from severe productivity issues, and their workers are highly dissatisfied at work. Excessive stress and hypertension can lead to heart diseases, depression, and obesity. It is the responsibility of the employers to ensure that there exists no unnecessary stress and tensions in the workplace for workers. 4. Balance employees' work and life The importance of time management at the workplace is not only to improve the quality of work life, but it can also benefit the life of workers outside the workplace. When employees can keep things under control on the professional front, they get more time to focus on their personal lives and ensure a proper balance between work and life. It is a fulfilling experience encouraging them to do better at their jobs. When workers know the tasks and know they can accomplish them within the given time frame, they feel a sense of calmness. This improves their quality of life as they are less stressed and happier. How to improve time management in the workplace 1. Plan all your work and task well in time Planning is the first step toward time management at the workplace. When you are planning your work and tasks before executing your plan, you are better positioned to accomplish the tasks without stressing out over a limited time. Planning is one of the critical time management skills for workplace success as it allows you to look over a strict routine and work smarter. You can decide which tasks require most of your time and how much you can accomplish within a day. Time management ensures you make smarter decisions every time without losing focus or compromising on work quality. According to the best-selling workplace author Brian Tracy, “Every minute you spend in planning saves 10 minutes in execution; this gives you a 1,000 percent Return on Energy.” 2. Prioritize the important work Another critical factor of successful time management skills is prioritizing the work list. When you sort through the available tasks, arrange them in a list based on priority. You have limited work time and can only focus on a few daily tasks. Prioritization is how you ensure that the critical tasks are completed on time. Not everything you do at work is of the same importance. Focusing on the essential tasks first ensures that you have high output. When you can figure out the most critical tasks that need to be completed urgently, you will be able to focus on what needs to be done. You can take the assistance of project management tools for this. 3. Stop multitasking Common myth employees suffer from is that multitasking can help them achieve more in less time. Several studies have shown that less than 2.5% of people can multitask effectively; the rest waste time trying to do several things simultaneously. Workers trying too many things end up achieving nothing at all. The best way to be most productive is to take one task at a time and complete it before jumping to the next task. As mentioned above, prioritize the essential tasks and cut them off the list. This is how you can focus on the task and complete it without errors. 4. Cut off all your distraction Distractions are everywhere, be it in personal or professional life. When you are distracted, you lose valuable hours of your day without accomplishing the tasks. Smartphones make it even more challenging to focus on work as we are continuously disturbed by notifications. Chatty workers and social media are other common distractions at work that waste hours. You have to be self-disciplined enough not to let such distractions affect your performance or productivity at work. The easiest way to remove these distractions is to take some time to evaluate the culture at work and understand what’s wasting your time. Please turn off your phone notifications and only check them at a fixed time during the day. All these steps will help you remain productive and focused at work without being distracted. 5. Use a time and attendance management software Companies can utilize time and attendance management software to ensure that things are monitored and managed effectively. Time management is essential in the workplace for employers and employees. Automated attendance management software tools allow employee time tracking that can help significantly improve the time management skills of HR managers. Depending on your needs, you can chose from many attendance apps for employees . Intelligent time management is necessary to ensure you keep productivity high without compromising the work culture quality. In the absence of a time tracking tool , you are at a disadvantage as you do not know where is the workers’ time going or who is lenient with work and shifts. How can Truein help? Truein is a powerful AI-backed brilliant time and attendance management tool that offers a suite of features to help companies stay on top of schedule every day. A face recognition attendance system allows employers to provide the best time management opportunities to HR managers and supervisors. It offers employee time tracking and shift scheduling capabilities that improve teams’ productivity and ensure work is delivered within set deadlines. As Truein provides a bird’s eye view of the employee time and attendance data, managers can look at important time management metrics such as shift timing, punching in data, leaves, availability of workers, etc. Furthermore, it allows managers to create shift schedules and overtime policies . As workers can record attendance from their smartphones using Truein, it helps managers to ensure that workers are available for the tasks to complete them by the deadline. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope to explain the importance of time management in a business environment with this article. Time management can be crucial in ensuring productivity and quality at work. Intelligent time and attendance software like Truein is the best way to manage time within a company. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs The Importance of Absence Management in the Workplace Workforce Scheduling - The Importance, Benefits, and Solutions For A Business Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					How To Create 24-Hour Shift Schedules? How To Create 24-Hour Shift Schedules? May 20, 2024 Businesses that are always open/functional have different governance requirements. Running a business 24/7 requires you to maintain a 24-hour shift schedule. It demands the availability of workers at work at all times, prompting scheduling challenges. An easy solution seems to confide in night shifts, but it can demoralize the workforce if they are scheduled to work night shifts. The secret of successful shift schedules for 24/7 coverage lies in equity. You have to figure out how to swap and rotate 24-hour shifts that do not leave your employees mentally or physically exhausted. Also, the best shift schedule for 24/7 coverage has the flexibility to accommodate changes in production peak. Table of Contents Things to consider before creating a 24 hours shift schedule schedule 1. The business type 2. Number of employees 3. Coverage requirements 4. Shift duration 5. Time Off Four 24-hour shift schedule examples 1. Fixed shifts 2. Rotating shifts 3. Swing shifts 4. DuPont Shift Schedule Automatic shift scheduling with Truein Conclusion Things to consider before creating a 24 hours shift schedule schedule Before we share tips on making a 24-hour shift schedule, it is essential to understand the requirements. Shift schedules are never one-fits-all; you have to consider the unique needs of your business. Here are the vital factors. 1. The business type Different businesses have different requirements. For instance, a 24-hour shift schedule is common in restaurants, hospitals, manufacturing, and construction businesses. However, all these businesses differ significantly in terms of skills and the number of workers required. Why you want to maintain a 24/7 work routine will decide the schedule structure. Hospitality and medical categories need staff in lesser numbers as compared to construction and manufacturing industries. 2. Number of employees The maximum number of workers you can hire and maintain will decide how to plan the shifts for round-the-clock timing. For instance, if your organization has only 30 employees and your business model requires at least 15 workers to be present in one shift, then for a 24-hour work schedule, you will need two 12-hour shifts. 3. Coverage requirements If your business has rush hours, like in restaurants or over a certain period, the production at your manufacturing unit peaks, and you will need more than the required number of workers. Again, you must consider the coverage requirements before planning the final 24-hour schedule. If the peak hours are not regular, like in restaurants, you can decide to go with contractual workers for a specific period. 4. Shift duration The best shift schedule for 24/7 coverage is one that minimizes overtime costs. You have to work out a schedule plan such that the overtime is under control. We already have a great resource for managing overtime and creating an excellent employee overtime policy . Here the goal should be to limit the length of each shift to 8 hours to avoid overtime. You can extend the shift duration to 10 or 12 hours if there are not enough employees to cover the 8-hour shift scheduling . Also, if your cover requirements demand more work hours, you can extend the shift period. 5. Time Off The problem with operating your business 24 hours a day, seven days a week, is that you might have revenue flowing in, but it is easy to forget about the staff. Your workers are not there to work 24/7 and need time off. After the payment, workers’ primary concern is when and how they will get the time off. Most employees working night shifts expect time off to complete their sleep or take mini-vacations. You can consider offering employees at least one of the weekends off during night shifts so they can catch up with their family and friends. Also, there are labor compliance requirements around 24/7 work shifts, don’t forget to consider those. Managers must understand the difference between a reasonable ask – mandating workers to work in a particular schedule – and putting workers at risk of burnout, fatigue, absenteeism , or poor performance. As manager scheduling shifts, you must be mindful of working in shifts’ physical and emotional stresses. Now that you understand what requirements must be examined before creating shift schedules for 24/7 coverage, we will explore the most commonly implemented shift patterns for 24/7 coverage. Four 24-hour shift schedule examples 1. Fixed shifts It’s the easiest route to maintain a specific shift. In fixed shifts, employees will always work the same shift they are put into. When you retain fixed shifts, you can hire and staff the shifts per the business’s demand. If there is a spike, you can hire part-time workers to fill the void. Fixed shifts are easy for managers to maintain, and some employees prefer them because their biological cycles are not disturbed by frequent changes between days and nights. Even customers will get used to dealing with the same employees at the same time of the day. The problem is if any worker is not satisfied with their shift, they will not be able to request a change. Fixed shifts work well for businesses of any size; however, you must maintain more than the minimum number of employees. Because employees will need time off in fixed schedules and you will need extra workers to cover the shift. 2. Rotating shifts Rotating shifts are more equitable as they allow employees to work in different shifts rotating after several weeks. No employee gets the “good” or “bad” shifts here, and every worker has to work day, night, and afternoon shifts. There are several variations of the 24-hour rotating shift. You can keep the rotation constant; for instance, the shift changes weekly. However, this can be hard on employees as their bodies continuously try to adapt physically and mentally. As the title suggests, a slow 24-hour rotating shift rotates slower, sometimes over months, so that employees can adapt to the shift change. Most restaurants and hospitality businesses maintain weekend rotation, where employees take a turn working weekend shifts. It is common in smaller firms where there is not enough staff. Finally, some businesses maintain partial rotating shifts where some employees have fixed shifts while others rotate. 3. Swing shifts Swing shifts are for businesses where a steady output or coverage is inevitable, like in the manufacturing and mining sector. In the swing method, shift schedules for 24/7 coverage have different starting and stopping points. Employees don’t have to stick to a set start-stop time. For example, instead of the usual 8-4, 4-12, and 12-8 shifts, the schedule can be 9-5, 11-7, and so on. Swing shifts are also implemented where an employee must be available to carry over one shift to the next. It makes shift transition smoother, like powerhouses or employees handling CNC machines in a manufacturing unit. However, keep in mind that swing shifts require more employees due to many staggered shifts. 4. DuPont Shift Schedule The DuPont 12-hour rotating shift pattern requires four teams who will work in two 12-hour shifts to provide 24-hour coverage. Here, you are required to maintain a 4-week cycle where each team works 4 consecutive night shifts, followed by 3 days off duty, then 3 consecutive day shifts, followed by 1 day off duty. 3 consecutive night shifts follow this, and then 3 days off duty, works 4 consecutive day shifts, and 7 consecutive days off duty. In total, on average, workers work 42 hours per week in DuPont’s 24-hour shift schedule. One of the greatest per of this shift pattern is that employees get a week off each cycle. Automatic shift scheduling with Truein Without a doubt, managing a 24-hour shift schedule can be complicated. If HR managers are left with manual tools to make a 24-hour shift schedule, it can take a lot of resources and time. As you have to manage not only who is working but also at what times of the week they will be working, things can get tedious quickly. Truein is a complete attendance solution based on cloud infrastructure. It is a hardwareless time and attendance system that uses AI for intelligent shift scheduling . It helps to create shift patterns for 24/7 coverage. Managers can track workers in real-time. They can view the availability of the shifts for a particular shift to make the work schedule faster and easier than ever before. Plus, it offers premium scheduling controls such as auto assigning shifts to available staff in case there is a shortage of workers. You can view the full image here . Schedule a free demo today and try Truein a complete leave and attendance management software that can easily integrate with payroll software and save your time and resources. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion With efficient shift schedules for 24/7 coverage, you can control labor costs, keep productivity high, maximize revenue, and keep employees happy. We hope this guide gave you enough information on how to make a 24-hour shift schedule. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Flex Schedules: A Complete Business Guide to Flexible Work Schedules 8-Hour Shift Schedule For 7 Days A Week Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form