Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization May 28, 2024 In any industry, managing the workforce is a challenge. Suppose your organization is experiencing an above-average attrition rate. In that case, if you are dealing with a disturbed productivity rate or it is challenging to take control of the working conditions, you need to act fast. To orchestrate resource utilization so that your company reaches its productivity targets without overburdening the workers, you have two use workforce management (WFM) and workforce optimization (WFO). WFO and WFM are the concepts that use statistical analysis to recommend the most effective mix of resources, including workers, to ensure high productivity and job satisfaction among the workforce. Both terms are often used interchangeably, but there lie subtle differences between the two concepts. Understanding workforce management vs. workforce optimization differences can help you make the most of the available resources in the long term. Table of Contents What is workforce management? What is workforce optimization? Workforce Management vs. Workforce Optimization: 4 Key Differences 3 Benefits of implementing WFM and WFO 1. Build a happier and more efficient workforce 2. Increases your company's agility 3. Cost savings Conclusion What is workforce management? Workforce management, or WFM , is a set of strategies, processes, and tools that the management uses to increase worker productivity. It primarily targets manpower forecasting , scheduling, and shift management through tools to automate the process. The main objective of workforce management is to ensure that the organization is adequately staffed. Furthermore, it also provides a contingent workforce available to address the productivity requirements at peak periods. Workforce management addresses the requirements of shift scheduling and refining the work environment to allow employees to work in a conducive environment. WFM uses tools to help managers create schedules, assign shifts to the workers, create reports, and monitor day-to-day activities within the company. Truein is a cloud-based hardware-less employee time and attendance management application that offers WFM features like shift schedule creation, attendance tracking, monitoring the location of employees at work, auto-generating reports, overtime management, and more. What is workforce optimization? Workforce optimization or WFO refers to the set of processes, strategies, and tools that help individual worker increase their productivity, quality, efficiency, and sustainability in the long term. Simply put, WFO emphasizes talent development and quality assurance at the employee level within the workforce. As opposed to WFM, which deals with the day-to-day productivity of the entire company, WFO offers high-level insights into overtime, disengagement among workers, stress levels, or too many idle hours within the workforce. WFO utilizes scheduling tools the same as workforce management, but it also requires monitoring the workers’ quality and performance to provide further training for upskilling. Workforce Management vs. Workforce Optimization: 4 Key Differences WFO also includes learning and development as part of the strategy, while WFM does not emphasize learning or development. This can also be highlighted as the key difference of workforce optimization and workforce management. Only workforce optimization provides real-time skill development tips, recording-based guidance, and other talent development aids for improving the workers at the individual level. WFM works on the scheduling and availability of the workers, while WFO focuses on efficiency gains within the individual workers. Workforce Management allows companies to standardize service levels and other important KPIs to ensure that all business processes run smoothly and face no workforce shortage. On the other hand, workforce optimization unlocks new efficiencies and opportunities through performance analytics and long-term training of the workers. Workforce optimization strategies include workforce management features, but not the other way around. WFM is a necessary part of WFO, so at some companies, workforce optimization alone is enough to improve productivity. However, standalone WFM lacks vital features of WFO, such as performance monitoring, employee engagement, and skill development management. For a small company, workforce management alone would suffice if their requirements were not complex. However, such essential forecasting and scheduling capabilities must be improved for medium-scale and large organizations. Organizations with large teams must utilize both WFM and WFO to have different strategies for managing quality assurance, performance, and productivity. 3 Benefits of implementing WFM and WFO At your organization, depending on the size of the workforce, you can choose to implement either workforce management or workforce optimization. WFO implementation probably works best because it also includes WFM features by default. 1. Build a happier and more efficient workforce With WFO, you can engage employees and help them improve their talent, which results in increased output and higher satisfaction at work. Managed and streamlined workforce is happier and more efficient. 2. Increases your company's agility With WFM and WFO, you can scale up work depending on the market’s demands. This makes your company more agile, and you can easily meet budget constraints or quickly react to project needs. 3. Cost savings Proper workforce management and optimization present many cost-saving opportunities. The key benefits include lower payroll costs, flexibility in talent acquisition, and reduced compliance risks. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope our workforce management vs. workforce optimization explanation has provided you with enough information to use the terms interchangeably next time. Ultimately, workforce optimization takes how you manage your workforce and optimizes it for maximum performance and skill development while ensuring smooth interaction between the organization and the workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is Workforce Optimization? Benefits and Top 5 Strategies What Is Workforce Management and How To Improve It? Streamlining Construction Workforce Management: Tools and Strategies for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					Employee Termination Policy – How To Prepare One Employee Termination Policy – How To Prepare One May 24, 2024 Every organization has its employee termination policies. These policies are different from employment policies because they apply when the services of a worker are terminated rather than when the employee starts working for the company. The managers and employees must adequately understand the termination policies, and you must know how they can affect your business and the relationship with the workforce. Table of Contents What is employee termination? 4 Types of Employee Termination 1. Voluntary Termination 2. Involuntary Termination 3. Employment at Will 4. Mutual Termination Labor law or termination rules for employees in India Labor law or termination rules for employees in US Labor law or termination rules for employees in UAE Employee termination policy template Employee termination policy template Things to consider for proper employee termination Can employers terminate employees without giving a reason at any time? Conclusion What is employee termination? Employee termination is simply the dismissal of an employee’s employment contract by the employer. Employee termination policy and procedures vary from company to company, but typically it’s done when the employer determines that the services of an employee are no longer needed. However, it can also happen if the employee breaches their employment contract. If the employer retires an old worker by dismissing them without cause or offering them an early retirement, it is also referred to as employee termination. In this scenario, employees are often laid off, termed job loss, or fired for dismissal without cause. Legally, an employer must provide notice before terminating the employment of a worker, exception for involuntary terminations due to downsizing or economic hardship. Employee termination is necessary to keep workers straight and narrow. It also provides some ground rules for the employees to follow and for the employers to avoid legal entanglements by the former employees. 4 Types of Employee Termination A well thought and comprehensive employee termination policy will list different types of terminations. The most common types of employee termination are: 1. Voluntary Termination As the title suggests, this is the type of termination that workers take on their own and leave the company voluntarily. There can be several professional and personal reasons why an employee might choose voluntary termination. It can include a lack of growth opportunities, personal problems, a toxic work environment, and no employee development. If your organization has high voluntary termination, you may be at fault, and you must proactively take steps to correct the situation for the remaining workers. 2. Involuntary Termination Involuntary termination is when an employer removes an employee from employment for some reason. Low performance, violation of company rules, and acceptable employee behavior can be why a company can choose involuntary termination of the employee. This type of termination can also result as the outcome of employee disciplinary action. 3. Employment at Will This type of employee termination gives the employer the right to fire a worker anywhere at any place without any reason. Employment at will allows an employer to terminate the employment contract without giving any reason. However, workers can still fight or prohibit such termination if they feel there is some discrimination. 4. Mutual Termination Here, both parties agreed to employee termination without any objections. Often, mutual termination is the best option as it’s a lot less messy, and there are minimal legal hassles. Apart from these types of employee termination, there can be other types depending on the nature of your business and the company’s size. It is essential to mention the kind in the employee termination policy of the company to inform workers better. Labor law or termination rules for employees in India In India, employee termination has some important rules that employees must follow. Firstly, the organization must offer a notice period of 30 to 90 days. Also, according to the Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 , when terminating more than a hundred employees in a manufacturing plant, mine, or plantation unit, government approval must be sought. In other sectors, only notifying the government is enough. Under Indian labor laws, employees can be terminated for one of the following reasons: Disobedience or will full insubordination Fraud, Dishonesty, or Theft Wilfully damaging employer’s property Taking bribes/illegal gratifications Absence without applying for leave for more than 10 days Late Attendance Indiscipline at the workplace Negligence of work You cannot fire an employee who is pregnant or seeking maternity leave under the Maternity Benefit Act of 2017 in the Indian constitution. In the employee termination policy, non-solicitation clauses can be used in a limited fashion, but non-compete agreements cannot be enforced according to Indian law u nless the employer contractually agrees. Labor law or termination rules for employees in US In the United States, most employment is treated as ‘at will.’ It means that both the employer and employees have the legal right to terminate employment without advance notice or procedures. However, under federal, state, or local law, an employer cannot terminate an employee, even at will for any unlawful reason. The Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act ( the WARN Act ) governs the mass layoff at any company within the United States. According to the act, an employer laying off 100 or more employees must provide the termination notice 60 days in advance. Labor law or termination rules for employees in UAE Employee termination policy template In UAE, your employee termination policy must be by Article 43 (1) of the Employment Law : “Either party to an Employment Contract may terminate the contract for a good cause, by giving the other a notice in writing. The employee shall perform his duties during the notice period agreed upon in the contract, provided that the notice period is not less than 30 days and not over 90 days.” Employee termination policy template If you need to be made aware of how to create a comprehensive employee termination policy, you can use the shared employee termination policy template. It is essential to include the purpose, procedures, and final pay rules in detail within the employee termination policy. Check out a sample employee termination policy template here . Things to consider for proper employee termination Evaluating the terms and conditions governing the employment termination policy and procedures is crucial. Here’s what you need to consider to avoid unnecessary lawsuits or further retaliation from former employees. 1. Provide a notice period: It is illegal to fire an employee without warning. A 30 to 90 days notice period must be served before terminating an employee. Also, you must provide a notice mentioning the reason for employee termination. If you fail to provide timely notice to an employee before their termination, they can file a lawsuit against the company. 2. Severance pay: It is the pay that an employee receives as compensation from the employer if the termination is reached with mutual consensus, retirement, layoffs, or employees leaving the company for reasons other than dismissal by misconduct. Severance pay is a highly effective tool to encourage mutual employee termination. 3. Know industry-specific employee termination requirements: There can be additional requirements for valid employee termination policies and procedures. You must know the legal requirements for employee termination within your industry. For instance, in mass terminations in factories, mines, or plantations employing more than 100 employees, the employer must give at least three months of wages as severance to the workers who are proposed to be terminated. 4. Avoid constructive dismissal: A constructive dismissal is a situation created by employers who wilfully force employees to quit even when they don’t want to. The resignation can result from bad working conditions or a change in employment, leaving workers with no choice but to quit. Some common factors that can amount to constructive dismissal are: Reduction in salary A demotion Transfer to a less desirable position Harassment or humiliation by the management Early retirement offers Indirect threats of termination 5. Conduct an exit interview: Exit interviews with an employee who leaves the organization for any reason can benefit the company. Planned exit interviews provide management with important information about the working environment, culture, workforce Management, and the development of the employees. Can employers terminate employees without giving a reason at any time? Not, really. Sharing the termination policy with the employment contract during the hiring process is essential. And if you’re an employee, you must always ask for the termination policy before accepting the employment to avoid any unpleasant surprises later. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Employee termination is a complicated procedure code for employers and employees. It is the most feared element of employment, so it is expected to stir emotions in employees. As a manager, you must ease up the process. This is why a comprehensive employee termination policy must be created and shared with all employees. The next step after proper employee definition is to revoke the terminated employees’ access to the company resources. Manually, it can take a lot of work to achieve this, which is why Truein is an ideal option. A cloud-based, hardware-less employee time and attendance management software , Truein also features auto deactivation or scheduled deactivation of employees. It can be integrated with your company’s employee termination policy implementation to auto-revoke employees’ access or blacklist them. We hope his guide provided you with a better understanding of employee termination policy and how to handle the procedures swiftly. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Time off Policy for Small Business: 6 Types & 5 Steps to Write a PTO Policy What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					How To Hire and Manage Contract Employees Easily? How To Hire and Manage Contract Employees Easily? May 28, 2024 Contract employees provide significant cost savings for companies and help maintain a lean workforce. Organizations can use a contractual workforce for their specific needs to solve a problem without paying any excess overhead. You have the freedom since you will be paying only for the services you get. However, many companies still don’t feel confident about hiring a contractual workforce because they do not know how to manage contract employees. In this article, we will share some essential tips on how to hire and manage contract staff. Table of Contents 5. Tips for hiring and managing contract employees 1. Start by posting a job 2. Describe the project clearly 3. Improve the contract employee experience 4. Set and share milestones and goals clearly, along with the timeline 5. Monitor work progress and share your review 6. Communicate with them Truein can help manage contract workers Conclusion 5. Tips for hiring and managing contract employees 1. Start by posting a job Consider posting remote contract jobs to attract top talent for your contract positions. A detailed job description outlining responsibilities, skills, and qualifications will attract suitable candidates who prefer working remotely. Remote work options open up a global talent pool, enabling you to access skilled professionals regardless of their location. Utilize specialized remote job platforms to reach a wider audience and find the perfect fit for your contract roles. 2. Describe the project clearly A common concern among employers is whether contract workers will work the same as full-time workers. The easiest way to ensure your contract staff does what needs to be done is to provide them with clear instructions about the requirement according to the scope of work. Provide the job details, the number of workers you will need, job schedules, which skilled laborers are required, and other important information about the job such that there is no scope for any confusion. 3. Improve the contract employee experience Most employers worry about the engagement of contract staff. It is true that contract laborers are not full-time employees but they also have pay expectations. It might be true to an extent that they are not directly under your supervision, but there are ways to engage them. When you proactively recognize the work done by contract workers, it gives them a sense of belonging, and they start caring more about their performance. Simple things like appreciating the good work, providing training to workers proactively, and acknowledging their accomplishments make them feel like part of the company. Contract workers must be treated with respect and administration at the same level as full-time employees. This motivates them and keeps them engaged to deliver the best. 4. Set and share milestones and goals clearly, along with the timeline Another way to manage contract employees is to discuss the project’s goals and milestones before allocating a job to them. Just informing them about their duties is not enough; you have to help them create a roadmap for the goals by telling them about the timelines. This ensures future understanding of the priority of the tasks. It is essential to provide extra supervision and training to contract workers at the start of the project to make them understand the work. Clearly inform the workers how their employment will be affected if they do not stick to the deadlines and deliver work daily. Keep contract workers from guessing deadlines and let them know about penalties for delaying work or not meeting the agreed deadlines. 5. Monitor work progress and share your review It can be challenging to decide how managers will monitor the attendance of contract workers and the work progress. You have to look beyond just describing what tasks laborers must finish and at what time. There is more to contract worker supervision like you have to schedule the workers, check if overtime is required and if the work is getting delivered on time. After that, you must share transparent reviews about the performance of the workers to their contractors, but try to be more constructive with the criticism. Instead, tell contractors how they can make the workers work more efficiently. 6. Communicate with them It is essential to keep contract workers within the communication loop so they understand what’s happening around them. It is important to remind them by writing or giving notice, doing on-site visits, or through their contractors that their work is essential for the overall project. This will convey your concern and show that, as a manager, you are vigilant about their contribution and evaluation of their work. As contractors may have a large number of workers under them, the roster changes frequently. A worker working today might not be available tomorrow and henceforth. Continuous communication and feedback are necessary to ensure that contractors are aware of how the overall workforce is performing irrespective of changes in the roster. Truein can help manage contract workers Truein is a cloud-based, hardware-less employee time and attendance management system that has contractor agency management features that allow managers to monitor, review, and schedule contract workers. Adding Contract Workers in Truein Managers can use this application to set and implement separate overtime and attendance policies for contract workers. It also features geofencing and GPS-tracking , enabling industries like mining, construction, and manufacturing to track contract workers in real time at remote locations. Track location of workers Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to manage your contractual workers more effectively. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion As more companies choose to work with contract workers they are becoming a significant part of the workforce. Knowing how to hire contract employees and manage them efficiently to maximize organizational growth is essential. The tips above will help managers develop the best practice management strategies for the contract workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How to hire cleaning employees? A Comprehensive Guide 2024 How To Manage Overtime In The Construction Industry? How to Manage Cleaning Staff in the Middle East Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form