Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					Step-by-step Guide to Set up A Corporate Attendance Policy Step-by-step Guide to Set up A Corporate Attendance Policy June 8, 2024 Besides being a good business practice, a corporate attendance policy encourages transparency and accountability. A well-thought-out company attendance policy can be a critical component of a corporate organization. Using a company policy on tardiness and absenteeism, you can set clear guidelines and expectations for employee attendance, punctuality, and leave management. However, it is essential to understand that a corporate attendance policy is more than just about tracking hours worked. It’s instrumental in maintaining productivity, ensuring fair treatment of employees, and achieving compliance with labor laws. This guide explores the steps to set up a corporate attendance policy that aligns with your organization’s needs and legal requirements. Table of Contents How do you set up a corporate attendance policy? 1. Set attendance expectations 2. Define absence categories 3. Explain time and attendance tracking methods 4. Define Tardiness policies 5. Define attendance maintenance records 6. Define compliance with laws How to write a corporate attendance policy in 10 steps? 1. Understand organizational needs 2. Take into account compliance with the law 3. Gather input from stakeholders 4. Define attendance policy objectives 5. Define various types of absences 6. Define attendance tracking 7. Communicate the attendance policy 8. Enable employees to access the attendance policy 9. Review and update the policy time-to-time 10. Have it reviewed by legal experts Conclusion How does Truein help ensure compliance with corporate attendance policy? FAQs 1. Can you terminate an employee for poor attendance? 2. What are the benefits of setting a corporate attendance policy? 3. How do you take attendance in a company? How do you set up a corporate attendance policy? A corporate attendance policy is a set of rules and regulations governing employee attendance. A comprehensive policy includes everything from the definition of planned and unplanned leaves, reporting time, paid-offs, and what disciplinary actions can be taken in case of a violation. Here’s how to set up a company absenteeism policy. 1. Set attendance expectations The primary goal of an effective company attendance policy is to convey the company’s attendance expectations to the workers. Clear and concise communication is the key, so the policy must use straightforward language regarding attendance, punctuality, and commitment to work hours. The policies must portray consistency and apply uniformly to all employees, regardless of their position within the company. Always be flexible while setting expectations to accommodate employee preferences and needs. 2. Define absence categories There are several types of absences, so it is essential to specify the various categories relevant to your organization within the absenteeism policy. Define each leave type, such as annual, sick, personal, bereavement, and public holidays, and what are the rules and procedures around them. The definition must also outline how employees accrue and manage their leave entitlements, if applicable. 3. Explain time and attendance tracking methods To ensure transparency when implementing a corporate attendance policy, it is crucial to inform employees about the methods and tools used to track time and attendance. The information must include what tools will be used, such as a time clock system, biometrics, or a cloud-based solution like Truein. Emphasize how to use the tools the company has in place for time and attendance recording for accurate data. Also, include information on how to receive training to use it effectively. 4. Define Tardiness policies Every year, US businesses lose millions of dollars due to tardiness, so it’s essential to have clear tardiness policies for the workplace. Outline what constitutes acceptable tardiness frequency. For instance, employees should aim to arrive late at most twice a month to avoid actions. Also, specify if there is a grace period for tardiness. For example, employees may be allowed a 10-minute window before they are considered late. Remember to be open about the consequences of repeated tardiness. Employees must know when verbal or written warnings can lead to other disciplinary actions. 5. Define attendance maintenance records Detail how attendance records will be collected and maintained using the tools. Employees should know how to correct errors or address discrepancies in tardiness attendance data. Another critical aspect of defining attendance maintenance records is to address data privacy concerns. The Corporate attendance policy should provide details about how attendance records will be securely stored and who can access this information. It should also comply with data protection laws. 6. Define compliance with laws Discuss the legal framework governing attendance policies. Inform employees how company policy on tardiness and absenteeism complies with federal, state, and local labor laws. It is essential to inform employees about their rights and protections under labor laws, such as information on family and medical leave and minimum wage regulations. Regularly review and update the policy to ensure it complies with evolving legal requirements. Next, you must create a detailed company policy on tardiness and absenteeism without missing essential requirements. How to write a corporate attendance policy in 10 steps? 1. Understand organizational needs Before creating a corporate attendance policy, you must consider the diversity of roles, shifts, and work arrangements within your organization. This understanding is mandatory to tailor the policy to meet the specific needs of different employee groups within the organization. The attendance policy must align with the overall goals and mission of the organization. 2. Take into account compliance with the law While creating absenteeism and tardiness policies for the workplace, you should thoroughly research federal, state, and local labor laws and regulations. Depending on your location, there will be varying attendance, leave, and employee rights laws. Pay close attention to industry-specific laws governing overtime, paid sick leave, healthcare facilities, etc. Taking legal assistance for this requirement is the best way to ensure full compliance and avoid potential legal pitfalls. 3. Gather input from stakeholders Creating a comprehensive company attendance policy is not a one-person or single-team job. It requires collaboration between HR professionals, managers, and supervisors to gather input on the practical aspects of attendance policy implementation. It is also advisable to seek employee feedback through surveys or focus groups. 4. Define attendance policy objectives It helps employees to understand what objectives the company attendance policy achieves. For instance, if one of the primary objectives is to boost productivity, specify how corporate attendance policies and practices contribute to achieving this goal. 5. Define various types of absences Ensure that you create a comprehensive attendance policy for all types of absences – annual leaves, sick leaves, personal leaves, and public holidays, to name a few. Include information about the process for requesting and approving different types of leaves. It should include advance notice requirements, accrual rates, and any restrictions. 6. Define attendance tracking The only possible way to implement company policy on tardiness and absenteeism is to have reliable methods and tools to track employee attendance. Irrespective of what tool you use to enforce company absenteeism policy, your employees must know how their attendance is tracked and recorded. Additionally, explain how to address discrepancies or errors in attendance records. 7. Communicate the attendance policy Besides creating a company attendance policy; you must ensure your employees can follow the policies easily. Include training sessions or workshops in the onboarding process to educate new employees about the attendance policy. Create a handbook containing the organization’s attendance policies or utilize a time and attendance tool which can help you formulate attendance policies that can be directly used across the organization. 8. Enable employees to access the attendance policy Make the policy easily accessible through digital platforms. Ensure that your employees have access to tardiness policies for the workplace whenever needed. If your organization has a diverse workforce, consider providing translations of the policy. 9. Review and update the policy time-to-time Periodic reviews of the attendance policy are necessary to ensure that the policies and procedures remain relevant and effective. Establish a feedback mechanism for employees and managers to suggest improvements or highlight any issues with the attendance policy. Update the policy promptly to comply with any labor laws or regulations changes. 10. Have it reviewed by legal experts Before you publish your corporate attendance policy, hire the services of legal experts or labor law attorneys to review the policy thoroughly. It is necessary to identify any potential legal risks, ambiguities, or areas of non-compliance. Conclusion A corporate attendance policy is necessary for ensuring workplace productivity and organization. By creating and sharing comprehensive company policies on tardiness and absenteeism, you can set clear expectations for employees. It will promote fairness and punctuality and ensure compliance with legal requirements. Follow the steps highlighted in this guide to create an attendance policy that meets your business’s unique needs and supports its goals. How does Truein help ensure compliance with corporate attendance policy? Truein is a complete time and attendance solution . It is a hardware-less, face-recognition attendance system with built-in 70+ templates that can be customized for the unique attendance requirements of any business. With Truein, you can define policies for late arrivals, sick leave, paternal leave, vacation leave, and more. Additionally, it readily integrates with several payroll systems and generates payroll-ready reports. This streamlines attendance management processes and ensures accurate payroll processing. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account FAQs 1. Can you terminate an employee for poor attendance? Yes, poor attendance can be a formal ground for termination. If an employee is consistently late or absent without reasonable explanation, disciplinary actions can be taken. However, you must follow the organization’s attendance policy and legal requirements when considering termination. 2. What are the benefits of setting a corporate attendance policy? A well-thought-out corporate attendance policy benefits a company in several ways. It improves productivity, encourages punctuality, consistent enforcement of attendance rules, compliance with labor laws, and streamlines leave management. 3. How do you take attendance in a company? Attendance can be taken through various methods, including manual sign-in sheets, time clocks, biometric systems, or cloud-based attendance tracking applications. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 08, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 08, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 08, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 08, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 08, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Time off Policy for Small Business: 6 Types & 5 Steps to Write a PTO Policy Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software May 28, 2024 Time and attendance reporting is the most basic requirement for any business. Over the years, the methods of taking attendance have evolved. Today, time and attendance software is the most advanced tool for workforce management. Efficiency and optimized operations are existential requirements for any business today, which is why adopting automation solutions is at an all-time high. According to Statista , recognizing the value of accurate attendance data, companies increased their spending by 14% on time-tracking tools during covid. While free time and attendance software options exist, they have several drawbacks that must be addressed and can hinder a company’s operational efficiency. In this article, we will explore the disadvantages of using free time and attendance software and why you should consider upgrading to paid solutions. Table of Contents Types of free time and attendance software commonly used in businesses 1. Manual excel spreadsheets 2. Online free time clock software 3. Open-source applications 4. Basic time and attendance mobile apps 5. Spreadsheet templates Disadvantages of Free Time and Attendance Software 1. Limited access 2. Lack of customization 3. Inaccuracies in attendance recording 4. Limitations in tech and customer support 5. Integration problems 6. Difficult to maintain Why should you consider upgrading to the paid time tracking software? 1. Face recognition: 2. GPS Tracking: 3. Shift Scheduling: 4. Reporting: 5. Integration with payroll software: When should you consider upgrading from a free to a paid time and attendance tracking software? Conclusion Types of free time and attendance software commonly used in businesses There are several types of free attendance software available for companies. All these solutions have limited features and can hinder the scalability of businesses. Let’s look at the most commonly used free time and attendance tracking solutions. 1. Manual excel spreadsheets Generally, small startups and many old businesses use Excel spreadsheets as a free time and attendance tracking solution. It requires employees to manually record their work hours on spreadsheets. Thereafter supervisors or HR personnel manually calculate attendance, overtime, and payroll based on these entries. There are several discrepancies or issues that might result from using manual excel spreadsheets Firstly, employee in and out data entry needs to be entered correctly as otherwise it results in inaccuracies and discrepancies in attendance and payroll. Also, calculating attendance and generating manual reports is a time-consuming process. As a free software, Excel has no automation features that makes it difficult to handle complex scheduling or track attendance in real time. 2. Online free time clock software Several online free time and attendance tools offer basic functionalities of more comprehensive paid solutions. Most of these free time clock software solutions are cloud-based platforms where employees can log their work hours, and supervisors can access attendance data online. Free online tools often provide essential time and attendance tracking features. Without advanced functionalities such as facial recognition and GPS tracking, these solutions are prone to time theft. Furthermore, free tools often restrict the number of users or employees accessing the system, limiting their usefulness for growing businesses. Also, only some companies provide customer support for free versions. 3. Open-source applications Open-source free time and attendance software options offer flexibility to be customized to fit a company’s specific needs. However, it requires technical expertise for setup and maintenance. Using open-source solutions will be challenging unless you have in-house IT expertise or external consultants. Also, free, open-source solutions typically have a community of contributors and often need more dedicated customer support. If an issue arises, you will be on your own to fix it. Regular updates, security patches, and ongoing maintenance of such software make them high maintenance. 4. Basic time and attendance mobile apps You can find hundreds of free time clock software apps on Google Play Store and App Store. All these apps offer basic time-tracking features, allowing employees to clock in and out using their smartphones. While simple to use, these free apps often need more advanced functionalities. An effective time and attendance tracking app should have advanced features like facial recognition, geofencing, or shift scheduling that most free apps lack. There is no accountability for using free mobile apps, which means employee data security is a major concern. Paid time and attendance apps use robust encryption and data protection measures. 5. Spreadsheet templates Some businesses use free time and attendance spreadsheet templates available online. These templates have a structured format for tracking work hours but do not offer automation and integration capabilities of dedicated software. While these free time and attendance software options may offer initial cost savings, they often have limitations and drawbacks that hinder efficient workforce management and payroll processing. Upgrading to a paid solution, such as Truein, can provide the necessary features and support to address these challenges and ensure accurate and streamlined time and attendance tracking. Disadvantages of Free Time and Attendance Software 1. Limited access As with most of the free time and attendance software solutions we listed above, limited access is a primary concern while using such free solutions. A free time clock software often restricts the number of users or employees accessing the system. Y ou do not want to use attendance software that can limit your company’s growth. The limited access may require frequent software switches and data transfers, adding to costs. 2. Lack of customization Free attendance-keeping solutions do not offer customization options. Simply put, you cannot adapt a free time clock software to your business needs. It will be challenging to integrate it with other tools, such as payroll or HR management, that your business might use daily. 3. Inaccuracies in attendance recording Free time and attendance software may lack advanced features like face recognition or GPS tracking, making it susceptible to buddy punching and inaccurate attendance recording. Also, free software that involves manual data entry, such as Excel sheets, increases the risk of human errors. Such inaccuracies can lead to incorrect payroll calculations, compliance issues, and even disputes between employees and management. 4. Limitations in tech and customer support Free-time attendance software often needs more technical support. Using free software, you will have to handle any technical issues independently. When problems arise, the need for dedicated customer support can result in prolonged downtime. For any business, such downtime can severely impact productivity. Inadequate technical assistance can also be frustrating for your workers, who need the acumen to resolve technical glitches or difficulties with the software. This limitation can lead to frustration when using the time and attendance software, negatively affecting user experience. 5. Integration problems Free time and attendance software have limited customization, which may not seamlessly integrate with other business systems, such as payroll software or HR management tools. Free tools result in data consistency due to a lack of integration. Manual data transfer requires additional work for your staff, which can be time-consuming and lower productivity. Another issue of free software can be incompatibility between systems. Such tools not integrating with existing systems will hinder efficient workforce management and payroll processing, resulting in potential errors and delays. 6. Difficult to maintain Free software may receive limited updates, improvements, or security patches. This can make software challenging and outdated, leading to vulnerabilities and compatibility issues with evolving technology. Adopting free time and attendance software results in a lack of ongoing maintenance, requiring dedicated IT staff. Addressing technical challenges and ensuring the software remains functional as your business grows becomes a lot more difficult in the need for regular maintenance. Why should you consider upgrading to the paid time tracking software? Evidently, free time clock software is not appropriate for growing businesses. Whether you are a fast-growing startup or an established business, you should upgrade to paid time-tracking software. Adoption of the right paid software like Truein can revolutionize your workforce management. Here are some features that make upgrading to paid time and attendance software worth it. 1. Face recognition: Paid software has advanced recognition and tracking features such as face recognition that ensure there is no time theft. Truein comes with AI-powered advanced facial recognition technology that can recognize staff even if they have glasses or masks on. It provides accurate attendance tracking and eliminates the risk of buddy punching. 2. GPS Tracking: Another reason to upgrade is GPS-based attendance recording. It allows managers to monitor employee location and verify where they should be during work hours. Truein has GPS geofencing , making it appropriate for remote access. 3. Shift Scheduling: Premium time and attendance software enables efficient shift scheduling , helping you easily create and manage employee schedules. Managers can create schedules considering workers’ skills, availability, and preferences. 4. Reporting: Access to comprehensive reporting and analytics tools allows management to make data-driven decisions by providing insights into workforce productivity. It improves business productivity and optimizes workforce management. 5. Integration with payroll software: Paid time and attendance software like Truein are designed to offer seamless integration with popular payroll software. It streamlines payroll processing and reduces the likelihood of manual errors. Upgrading to paid time and attendance solutions like Truein provides businesses access to necessary features. Such solutions also come with reliable technical and customer support, ensuring your business never runs into downtime due to unattended technical glitches. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account When should you consider upgrading from a free to a paid time and attendance tracking software? You must consider upgrading from a free time and attendance software if your business is experiencing the following: Rapid growth that necessitates the need for a more scalable and feature-rich time and attendance solution. Increased instances of inaccuracies in time and attendance data due to free software. Your existing free time clock software solution does not integrate with other essential business systems. Limited customer support and maintenance issues. Conclusion Free time and attendance software may seem like a cost-effective option initially, but it has significant limitations and drawbacks. Upgrading to paid time and attendance software like Truein can facilitate smooth time and attendance tracking and workforce management optimization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form