Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? March 31, 2024 In most workplaces, employees are entitled to a lunch break to get a breather from the long day at work. A hardworking and dedicated workforce is a boom for any company, and every worker must be provided every opportunity to restore their mental and physical health. Taking time to eat lunch is not considered an official work hour. There are no federal break laws that employers are bound to. Yet, every company should maintain its employee lunch break policy. Such a policy is critical in keeping workers as productive as possible and to prevent time misuse. If your company still doesn’t have an employee break policy, this guide is for you. Read on to learn more on how you can create an employee friendly break policy at work. Table of Contents Why is the lunch break policy important at the workplace? 1. Improves productivity and efficiency 2. Reduced health risks 3. Compliance with the law Break laws in different countries United States India UAE How to design an effective lunch break policy? Sample Lunch & Break Policy Rest Breaks Lunch Breaks Emergency Breaks Break Time Policy Violations Challenges to implementing employee lunch break policy 1. Share policy with workers 2. Compliance 3. Tracking employee time Truein for employee lunch break policy implementation Conclusion Why is the lunch break policy important at the workplace? If your workers are not taking regular breaks, it will harm their well-being, and ultimately their work performance will decline. Making workers work without breaks may seem stellar, but it has negative consequences for employees and employers. To maintain a positive workforce and encourage workers to take breaks, you must make efforts to let workers know that it’s alright to take lunch breaks. To ensure clarity, a comprehensive employee lunch break policy will help. Here are some of the reasons to have a lunch break policy. 1. Improves productivity and efficiency Maximizing productivity and efficiency means something other than making employees work continuously throughout the day. When you allow rest and meal breaks, it has a direct effect on task attention and productivity. This has been shown to have a ripple effect on the sales and revenue within the company. An employee-friendly break policy encourages them to put their best at work, and a dedicated workforce is essential for any company. 2. Reduced health risks Employees in a company with an ideal lunch policy tend to have fewer health conditions associated with long work hours. Stress and fatigue are the most common issues workers face if the working conditions are unhealthy. For employers, an unhealthy workforce means increased absence rates, poor shift scheduling, and low production. A friendly employee break policy builds trust between employers and employees. It makes the foundation for a trustful relationship between employers and employees. Meal and rest breaks keep the working environment stress-free, and you get a happy workforce. Happy workers proactively work harder and give their best, which improves product and service quality. It is an intangible benefit that increases and improves productivity in the long term. 3. Compliance with the law Running a business requires compliance with the laws of its jurisdiction. Regulations regarding lunch break policy are becoming more prevalent. A lunch break policy will provide clear guidance to workers on the company’s stance on meal and rest breaks. It will also help comply with local, state, and federal laws. Therefore, having a break policy for hourly employees benefits the workers and enables you to be on the right side of the law. Break laws in different countries When creating and implementing an employee lunch break policy, you must know the current state labor law requirements. Check out the guidelines regarding scheduled lunch break policy in different countries. United States According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), there are no federal break laws. But there are local state laws regarding meal and rest breaks. You can learn about the meal break laws for your state from the U.S. Department of Labor site here . Almost half of the U.S. states have lunch break laws that require employers to avail a 30-minute break for workers who perform over six hours of work within a single shift. States of California, Colorado, Kentucky, Minnesota, Nevada, Vermont, and Washington make it mandatory that all workers, irrespective of their roles, must be provided paid rest breaks by law. In comparison, other states cover only specific types of workers. For instance, Maryland’s Shift Break law only covers retail workers. India In India, most states follow the Factories Act guidelines that mandate a 48-hours work week. Companies can make workers work up to 9 hours daily, including the lunch break. Most state laws provide a break of 30 to 60 minutes every four to five hours worked. However, most companies provide a one-hour lunch break in an eight-hour shift. UAE According to the Federal Decree Law No. 33 of 2021 on the Regulation of Labour Relations in the Private Sector , companies must follow the 8 hours per day or 48 hours per week shift schedule. The law also entitles “ any worker has the right to have one or more breaks, if he works five consecutive hours. These breaks must not be less than one hour. Breaks are not calculated within the working hours. “ “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How to design an effective lunch break policy? When creating a lunch break policy for your company, you must first determine the state’s legal requirements. Then you can proceed to include the best practices for allowable breaks. A friendly employee lunch break policy is comprehensive and precise, with a specified amount of break time per number of hours worked. Here is a lunch break policy sample that you can refer to. Sample Lunch & Break Policy [Company Name] provides full and part-time employees with meal and lunch breaks to ensure they can remain productive at work. These breaks can be used for any reason, such as restroom use, smoking (in designated areas only), coffee breaks, meal or snack breaks, telephone breaks, or short naps. We provide two kinds of breaks and a break room for you to use. Rest Breaks Rest breaks are to be 15 minutes at maximum. You are not required to take a break, but we encourage it for your health and well-being. Here’s how it works: Breaks are offered 2 times a day for full-time employees who work 6 hours or more daily. They are provided only once daily for part-time employees who work 5 hours or less daily. Rest breaks are on the clock, meaning you don’t have to clock-out for a rest break. Breaks can be taken any time after your first 2 hours on a given workday. Employees must remain in the building or the property during their rest break. Employees should use the break room rather than stay in the work area. So as not to cause a distraction to other workers, not on break. Please notify your supervisor/manager when a rest break is needed to ensure work is covered while you’re on break. Lunch Breaks Lunch breaks work similarly to rest breaks except that they are: 1) longer than rest breaks, and 2) the amount of time you’re on a lunch break is not paid time. With supervisor approval, employees are allowed to choose the amount of time they take for Lunch, between 30-60 minutes. Here’s how it works: Employees who work 6 or more hours a day are provided a lunch break. Part-time employees, or those who work 5 hours a day or less, do not get a lunch break. Employees who work over 10 hours in one shift are allowed to take two lunch breaks. It would help if you clocked out and/or recorded your lunch break as unpaid hours on your timesheet. Lunch breaks are typically taken after the first 3-4 hours on the job, depending on your schedule. Work with your supervisor to determine the best time to take your lunch break. You are encouraged to leave the property for your lunch break, but you are also welcome to use the lunch area or outdoor picnic area for your lunch break. Emergency Breaks We understand there are times when an employee has an emergency, such as when they feel ill or have to take an urgent phone call. Talk to your supervisor in these situations to accommodate your emergency. Break Time Policy Violations While our break-time policy is generous, breaks will be monitored to ensure that work does not suffer. Therefore, we reserve the right to discipline any employee found abusing our break time policy. For example, taking too many breaks, taking breaks that are too long, disturbing staff that are not on break, or abusing the use of emergency break time. Challenges to implementing employee lunch break policy The break policy for hourly employees has some implementation challenges that managers must be aware of. 1. Share policy with workers Only some workers will take time to look for the scheduled lunch break policy. Managers must ensure that workers know the policies regarding meal and rest breaks between shifts. While notice boards and circulars can do the trick, it is better to involve a notification system for sharing the break policy at work. 2. Compliance As labor laws change, it requires policies at work are updated every time there are amendments made to state or local labor laws. Compliance can be tricky if no software solution is in place to notify all workers when the employee break policy is updated. 3. Tracking employee time Providing lunch breaks is essential, but how do you ensure that workers abide by the company’s break policy? This is why monitoring employee time is mandatory, but it can be challenging if it has to be done manually. Employee time and attendance tracking software solutions can help. Truein for employee lunch break policy implementation Truein is an employee time and attendance software that offers real-time monitoring of work hours. A cloud-based, hardwareless app, Truein can easily be deployed at multiple sites. It has GPS geofencing and face recognition to prevent buddy punching and time theft . To ensure adherence to the employee break policy, it offers multiple punch-in and punch-outs so workers can take breaks per company policy. Using the Truein app, workers can request a break. Managers and supervisors are notified about the request and then can approve the request. It also features over 70 customizable policy templates that allow managers to create and maintain separate policies for contractual and permanent employees. Conclusion An employee lunch break policy is your way of providing workers with time to de-stress and rejuvenate between long hours of work. When implemented correctly, an employee break policy can benefit overall employee health and well-being, creating a happy workforce. For employers, it provides long-term benefits in productivity and efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Workforce Scheduling – The Importance, Benefits, and Solutions For A Business Workforce Scheduling – The Importance, Benefits, and Solutions For A Business May 28, 2024 In any industry where the workforce is the largest resource, it’s essential to take all measures necessary for workforce management . For such industries, workforce scheduling forms the foundation for smooth day-to-day business operations. If your company relies on labor for continued production and revenue generation, it’s essential to understand the principles of workforce scheduling optimization. Effective workforce scheduling and management have proven beneficial for revenue generation, profit, and employee satisfaction and well-being. The process requires managers to intensely scrutinize, plan, and optimize business strategies for workforce management. This article aims at explaining the concept of workforce scheduling. We will look at the benefits and challenges of workforce planning and how software can help overcome these challenges. Table of Contents What is workforce scheduling? How does workforce scheduling benefit your business? 1. Increases productivity 2. Cost control 3. Lowers worker turnover 4. Reduce unnecessary overtime The challenges of workforce scheduling 1. Tracking workers 2. Responding to changes How can scheduling software help? 1. Easy time tracking 2. Shift management flexibility 3. Customizable reports Truein for complete workforce scheduling What is workforce scheduling? Workforce scheduling is the pragmatic shift scheduling of hourly workers and laborers according to the current demands of the workplace, keeping the future demand forecast into account. Effective workforce scheduling involves maintaining schedules that make the transition from one shift to another seamless and ensures no interruption in productivity. It is also essential to provide enough workers present in a shift such that work remains uninterrupted. For optimal workforce scheduling, several factors need planning. For instance, if you’re scheduling for a retail business, you have to consider the hours during which the footfall is more. Every industry has its unique workforce scheduling requirements. That being said, some common factors, too, include employee skills, productivity, and availability. With industries adopting a dynamic workforce culture that allows them to hire more hourly workers, the workload changes frequently. For human resources, this is a nightmare as they have to change employee schedules to handle such workload changes often. This makes automated scheduling processes necessary for every industry. Today, traditional spreadsheets or timesheets are not regarded as efficient tools for workforce scheduling because there is much more to employee scheduling than simple timesheets. How does workforce scheduling benefit your business? With workforce scheduling optimization, there are some valuable benefits for any company. Any business can optimize its operations, maximize resources, create a balanced and positive workplace environment, and enhance profit generation through a workforce scheduling system. Here are some of the benefits of workforce scheduling. 1. Increases productivity When workers are effectively managed, it ultimately maximizes productivity. Workforce scheduling is the best way to automate the manual processes involved in workforce management, such as manual time tracking, attendance management, and report generation. By adopting workforce scheduling software, companies can provide managers with enhanced scheduling capabilities, saving them time to invest in activities that directly increase productivity. 2. Cost control Workforce scheduling optimization helps companies manage labor costs regarding operational efficiency and resource management. With proper scheduling, organizations eliminate the possibility of over or understaffing entirely. It is the best way to ensure that you have the correct number of workers on payroll to minimize labor costs. 3. Lowers worker turnover Workers have some expectations from their workplace, and if a company fails to meet them, they feel frustrated and burnout. This eventually leads to higher turnover. Workforce scheduling can help you keep employees engaged and motivated. It will prevent the outflow of workers from your company, and you will be able to attract the best talent available. With proper scheduling, companies can ensure that the workers are well-rested, engaged, and appreciated. If your workers feel that the workplace environment is incompetent and unfair, they will leave when they see an opportunity. 4. Reduce unnecessary overtime Unmanaged over time can be a disaster for any company. As the labor laws dictate, pay for overtime hours is almost twice the regular wages. If you are not effectively managing overtime within your company, it can directly affect the bottom line. With workforce scheduling, you can precisely track a worker’s time on a particular job. Based on the data, required managerial actions can be taken to reduce unnecessary overtime. It also helps minimize compliance issues. The challenges of workforce scheduling If this is your first time implementing workforce scheduling, there are some challenges that you must be aware of. Scheduling presents various challenges for any organization, and managers must balance many variables for effective workforce scheduling optimization. Let’s explore some of the biggest challenges. 1. Tracking workers Irrespective of the industry, workforce scheduling requires accurate tracking of workers. You must be aware of the number of workers available, the labor needed for a given shift, the location of the project, compliance requirements, and much more. Additionally, you must know the available resources within the company that, includes the number of employees, their skills, their qualifications, overtime status, etc. You can anticipate how overwhelming it will be to manage all these requirements manually in the absence of a workforce scheduling system. 2. Responding to changes Another major hurdle in workforce scheduling is responding to changes on short notice. Such changes can arise for several reasons, such as absences, sudden rise in staff requirements, or employee turnover without warning. For instance, if a worker calls in sick, their manager has to find a replacement immediately, which can be tricky. If such changes are handled manually, it will be very stressful for the managers and result in inefficient scheduling affecting workers’ health and engagement. How can scheduling software help? Today, workforce scheduling technology has evolved to automate any operational process for workforce scheduling optimization. AI-powered employee scheduling solutions like Truein can handle large workforces and create optimally balanced shifts for workers. Such applications also empower employees to take control of their schedules as they are notified of their shifts or any changes in real time. 1. Easy time tracking Workforce scheduling software can help you accurately track the number of work hours for workers. It puts you in a better position to make decisions regarding overtime and quickly identify situations that can result in understaffing or overstaffing. It also plays a critical role in complying with labor laws regarding overtime. 2. Shift management flexibility With software such as Truein, workers have access to their schedules. It puts them in a better position to request shift change or leave in case the need arises – for example if they have to attend urgent family obligations. This flexibility lowers the chance of absenteeism and improves employee satisfaction as they can take care of emergencies without losing pay. 3. Customizable reports The software eliminates the requirement for workforce managers to spend hours preparing shift schedules or reports on a spreadsheet. Automated and customizable reports save valuable HR hours and help calculate essential metrics such as absences per quarter, shift swaps by a particular employee, the pattern of increased workload, etc. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein for complete workforce scheduling Truein is a suite of employee time and attendance software and shift scheduling tools. A cloud-based, hardware-less solution, it has versatile workforce scheduling features that make it a perfect fit for any organization. This software solution can help companies manage shifts based on the work location through GPS geofencing. It can help you streamline workflow at multiple sites from the same dashboard. Truein allows job mapping functionality that allows workers to map their job at hand with the time. Managers can use its reporting to verify project progress and evaluate productivity using real-time metrics such as attendance. Truein gives complete control to managers to record, identify, and mitigate workforce scheduling issues. At the same time, it offers workers real-time awareness of their shift changes as they take place. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Scheduling Conflicts: Types of Scheduling Conflicts, Preventive Measures, and Solutions Business Continuity Planning for Small Business Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form