Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? Why Should Employers Offer Health Insurance To Employees? May 31, 2024 A company operates with its workforce at the core of its operations. As part of a progressive work culture, companies offer employees several benefits, including insurance coverage. When you offer employee health insurance as part of the pay benefit working for a company, workers are encouraged and feel more comfortable working in jobs that require physical labor. Industries such as manufacturing, mining, construction, and shipment that employ a large number of blue-collar workers can benefit from offering group health insurance to the workers. In this article, we will take a closer look at employee health insurance and how it benefits companies and workers. Table of Contents What is employee health insurance? Why should you offer health insurance to employees? 1. Employee benefit 2. Benefit from tax incentives 3. Hiring and retention Should employers choose individual or group health insurance? How to choose the best health insurance for your employees? Conclusion What is employee health insurance? Employee health insurance is a benefit extended to workers within the company. The coverage is not only for the workers employed by the employer but also provides insurance coverage to the rest of their family members as part of the policy. Companies that offer medical insurance for employees pay full or partial premiums for their insurance policies. Previously, it was an optional decision for employers to offer employee health insurance as part of work benefits; however, post-pandemic, the Indian government has made it mandatory for employers to provide employee medical insurance. The decision was implemented in April 2020 , and all industries must provide employee health insurance irrespective of skills or type of employment. Besides offering a safety net for workers to deal with medical expenses or costly treatments, medical insurance for employees is an employee prosperity and value plan. It adds to your employer’s brand and communicates to the workers that you care about their well-being. Employee health insurance can be a powerful tool to engage workers and earn loyalty. Why should you offer health insurance to employees? As an employer, you must know why some of the most successful companies offer health insurance to employees. Employee health insurance helps your company operate more strategically, efficiently, and effectively. Here are some critical reasons why offer health insurance to employees. 1. Employee benefit With an employee health insurance policy, workers and laborers can afford individual health insurance that might otherwise be out of reach. The workers do not have to pay the premium for the policy as the company pays on their behalf. This is how workers receive health insurance coverage free of cost or at lower prices. 2. Benefit from tax incentives For employers, there is a financial advantage to providing health insurance to the workers as tax benefits are associated with it. Generally, the employee health insurance premiums are 100% tax deductible which offers companies a way to save on federal business taxes. Additionally, offering health insurance coverage as part of the compensation package to the workers potentially means you can reduce the payroll taxes. Whether you provide individual/group employee health insurance, you can be eligible for a business health care tax credit. 3. Hiring and retention Since the pandemic, employees have become more discerning about opportunities that offer better health benefits. People-oriented companies provide employee health insurance that also engages employees to stay with the company for longer. This is why employers should provide health insurance because it helps with the retention of workers. Also, it attracts workers to your company as well. Should employers choose individual or group health insurance? A solid employee health insurance plan can contribute to your employees’ well-being and benefit your company simultaneously. However, you must choose between individual and group health insurance policies wisely. A group health insurance policy covers a group of workers. It is only available for employers, and employees pay little or no premium towards a group health insurance policy. Usually, it only covers the workers, but some policies also cover their dependents. An individual health insurance policy is the commonly available option that requires a health check-up of the individual before the policy is issued. Typically, individual employee health policy requires much more due diligence and has a long waiting period. As an employer, you must choose a group employee health insurance policy because it acts as a master plan offering uniform coverage to all workers who are part of a group. It allows you to provide workers with the same type of insurance coverage depending on their position within the company. How to choose the best health insurance for your employees? There are considerations to keep in mind when you pick a group health insurance for your employees. Choose an employee health insurance plan with convenient options like telemedicine and urgent care visits. Opt for plans that provide cost savings to the workers so they can afford expensive treatment easily. Finally, look for insurers to provide a personalized experience to the employees when they have any questions regarding their health insurance. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Employee health insurance is a significant benefit that must be included as part of the pay package. It not only helps workers afford treatment and medical coverage for themselves and their families but also offers cost-saving benefits for employers. Truein is an employee time and attendance management software that can assist you in better managing the workforce. It assists managers with overtime and schedule management, it ensures that workers are not overly burdened or burnout. Truein also features leave management , attendance policy management, and real-time monitoring among other features. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the attendance management at your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Top 6 HRM Trends to Watch In 2024 Top 6 HRM Trends to Watch In 2024 July 24, 2024 Human resource management (HRM) is an essential process of workforce management . It is the practice of recruiting, hiring, deploying, and managing employees to ensure smooth functioning. HRM is also responsible for creating and overseeing the policies governing the organization’s and its employees’ relationships. A s HRM is closely related to employees and the employment protocols within an organization, it has to keep up with the changes in the domain. The economic slowdowns, globalization, workforce diversity, changing skills requirements, need for downsizing, decentralized work culture, and many more factors make it necessary to keep up with HR trends. Let’s look at the important HRM trends in 2023 that you must keep track of. Table of Contents 1. Focusing on workers' health 2. Introducing diversity in the workforce 3. Training employees 4. Facilitating hybrid culture 5. Rise of MNCs and globalization 6. Automation of everyday tasks Conclusion 1. Focusing on workers' health A recent study by the McKinsey Health Institute found that every one in four employees are experiencing burnout symptoms. The study further found a 22% gap between employers and employees in the perception of well-being at work. The startling difference in opinion leads to toxic work cultures and burnout in workers. So how can HRM help? Human resources can work on setting up healthy organizations. One of the increasing trends in HRM is to take a holistic and more inclusive enterprise-wide approach to workers’ well-being. The concept of a healthy organization goes beyond the physical health of the workers and aims at facilitating flexibility and more opportunities for training and empowerment. For instance, offering unskilled workers development programs help them move up the socio-economic level. 2. Introducing diversity in the workforce HRM was considerably more straightforward in the past as the workforce was highly homogeneous. But today, a typical workforce comprises people of different ages, gender, social class, values, cultures, and ethnicities. Diversity in the workforce is even required because it boosts creativity and innovation, which helps an organization’s competitiveness. Diversity inclusion will be one of the top HR trends in the coming years. A fun way for human resources to achieve this is through changes in the benefits package offered by the company. If you can provide family-friendly benefits, which include flexible work schedules and employer benefits such as childcare, you will attract talent from diverse backgrounds. HRM must also be mindful of the age difference among workers to effectively train people from different age groups to work together and respect diversity. 3. Training employees Continuous improvement programs provide human resources the much-needed advantage they require for a competitive edge. Training employees continuously is essential for organizations focusing on quality and building a better foundation for the workforce. It also helps with employee retention as workers grow in their position through learning. HRM must strive to improve existing training programs and introduce necessary changes to facilitate continuous training and learning. Also, amendments must be made to include specific requirements or facilities depending on the diversity of the workforce, such as translators and content in the native language. 4. Facilitating hybrid culture Since the pandemic, there has been a shift in workplace culture, and employees are looking for flexible work hours with the ability to work remotely. Most companies have adopted a hybrid work model, becoming one of the top trends in human resource management. A flexible work model includes a mix of in-office and remote work. Amazon, Infosys, Microsoft, and Siemens are some large corporations that have adopted the hybrid work culture. The question arises if the hybrid work model is enough to provide the much-needed flexibility. The end goal of this approach is to provide a psychologically safe environment for people to work in. It facilitates a better work/life balance, making them more productive and stress-free. Given the success of this work model, 74% of US companies are using or planning to implement a permanent hybrid work model. 5. Rise of MNCs and globalization The profitability and growth of businesses today depend on the local and international markets. This is evident from the rise of multinational corporations. To operate such corporations, human resource managers must make new requirements. Such businesses require a mix of employees in terms of skills, knowledge, diversity, and cultural adaptability. Another HR trend to keep a tab on is to create training and development programs to meet the challenges of globalization. HRM must develop mechanisms that support a multicultural workforce and allow individuals to work together. As the differences in background and language increase, the risk of employee conflict also increases. Human resource management’s responsibility is to train managers to be more flexible in these practices to minimize conflicts and have open conversations. 6. Automation of everyday tasks In 2023, organizations cannot become profitable and have a competitive advantage if they keep up with the traditional way of handling work processes. High-value and productive workings require leveraging the power of automation and AI-powered solutions that can accelerate the execution the daily tasks. From screening and sourcing talent to tracking employee time and attendance , adopting AI tools is one of the recent trends in HRM. Truein is an AI-powered, cloud-based, and hardware-less employee time and attendance management solution . It is a highly efficient tool for tracking work hours, attendance, performance, leave, overtime, and the real-time location of the workers. It also helps HRM be more productive by automating employee attendance and easily integrating with payroll software. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion By anticipating and implementing the trends in human resource management listed here, numerous companies sailed unscathed during the economic slowdowns, pandemic effects, and changing employee demands. This is why you must learn about HR trends in 2023 to rapidly transform your organization for high-quality employee experience and business profitability. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs New HR Trends for 2025: What Middle East Businesses Need to Know? Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Unlocking HR's Full Potential: Navigating the Top 5 Limitations of Human Resource Management Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? May 27, 2024 Salary is the primary motivator for employees to stay at a job in the first place. For employers, however, it can be challenging to decide how and when to pay employees in a way that will attract them and keep the business sustainable. The topic is on-demand pay, but to understand what it is and whether your organization must offer it, it is necessary to know why this pay type exists. Table of Contents Understanding employee expenses What is on-demand pay? How does on-demand pay work? Examples of on-demand pay services The pros and cons of on-demand pay Advantages for employees 1. Creates financial equity for employees 2. Financial well-being leads to physical well-being The drawbacks for employees 1. Fees 2. Taxes Benefits for employers 1. Better employee retention rates 2. More productive employees The cons of on-demand pay for employers 1. Pay errors 2. Taxes How Truein can help employers? Conclusion Understanding employee expenses For some employees, more than the amount of the paycheck the frequency is important to meet their needs to pay their bills simultaneously. Such a situation is strenuous for them because costs like late fees can put them in a vicious cycle of payday loans that is hard to break. This is one of the reasons why workers always look for pay and other financial benefits when looking for a job. Routine and steady pay benefits the employees as well as the employer. It draws in more talent and is incredibly enticing for young adults who recently got independent and started paying bills themselves. Furthermore, it also shows your existing employees that you value them and understand their hard work. The easiest way to help your employees attain financial stability and avoid strain is to offer them a routine and reliable paycheck. Even if you already provide them with this facility, you can introduce extra flexibility by allowing them to access their payments other than the designated payday. What we suggested above might sound easy to implement, but it is not, and things can get out of hand fast if you need to be more strategic about it. This is why we created this guide about on-demand to help you understand it better. What is on-demand pay? On-demand pay is a wage payment method that allows employees to receive their wages as they earn them. Usually, companies allow employees only to access a certain percentage of their salary per pay period, while the rest is paid as usual on the standard payday. However, on-demand pay allows workers to have access to their wages when they require it. It is essential to consider that as this mode of payment can have multiple transactions for the same salary, the fee per transaction can result in overhead that must be planned. Typically, the price for the use of on-demand pay options is included in the cost of the payroll provider charges. But standard practice is to charge the employees for the service and not the employer, unlike payroll processing. As a manager, you must decide what policies should dictate the processing of on-demand pay as it is not a standard transaction like payroll. Also, the limits need to be discussed for implementation because an unregulated number of pay demands can stress the company’s financial stability. How does on-demand pay work? The on-demand pay provides employees access to a limited amount of money between paychecks to meet unpredictable or urgent expenses. It gives them a sense of financial stability and security, allowing them to focus on work. There are several solutions to handle on-demand pay depending on when and how employees withdraw funds. Both parties, the employer and the employees, will undoubtedly have different opinions on how this mode of payment should work. It would be best if you balanced the needs of both parties as fairly as possible. Firstly, you must weigh the organization’s budgeting and cash flow options to ensure that the on-demand pay implementation will only affect the business’s ability to operate daily. Next, you can ask the employees for feedback to know their concerns and demands. Once you have all the data you need, you can move forward by determining the protocols that will dictate how on-demand pay will work within your organization. If you want, you can implement more than one type of solution for this to work. Here are some examples that can help. Examples of on-demand pay services Major US corporations like KFC, McDonald’s, and Taco Bell employ the services of Instant Financial . It is a payroll service providing more control in the hands of the worker. Instant financial allows employees to receive a smartphone notification about a shift, and they can decide if they want to collect a paycheck at the end of the day. If they select same-day payment, the money is transferred to the prepaid debit card or directly credited into their bank accounts. Another solution is to allow employees to use their pay schedules. It can work for both full-time and hourly employees. For example, Gusto’s Cashout program will enable employees to avail up to 40% of their paychecks as on-demand pay, with a maximum $ 500 limit. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics reports, nearly 37% of employers offer two-week pay to workers. This is an excellent way to allow financial freedom to the workers while keeping the cash flow at the company at a sustainable level. However, according to Nelson Lichtenstein, a history professor at the University of California Santa Barbara and director of the Center for the Study of Work, Labor, and Democracy, there are challenges associated with offering on-demand pay. He explains, “I think this creates more chaos and insecurities. If you get paid every day, you are scrambling every day.” He argues that offering pay every single day eradicates the built-in buffer that exists. However, a two-week on-demand pay solution is like forced savings that give individuals more freedom to plan how to spend money. It also is beneficial for budgeting. This is why a two-week model might be most beneficial compared to other solutions if you plan to offer on-demand pay to your employees. It provides the much-needed buffer to save while still enjoying the freedom to meet urgent expenses without taking out a loan. The pros and cons of on-demand pay On-demand pay has its advantages and disadvantages for both parties involved. The outcome depends on how and why you adopt on-demand pay for your organization. Advantages for employees 1. Creates financial equity for employees On-demand pay help workers better manage their finances whether they want to invest earned wages or need to pay for urgent auto repair. Expenses can occur at any time; with this mode of payment, employees can get their money sooner. This flexibility allows them to receive and save money on their own time. It is better for financial security as on-demand pay can help them meet unexpected bills or urgent expenditures to cover the expenses rapidly. As per Federal Reserve research , over 35% of adults would be unable to cover a $400 emergency bill. This is why many workers turn to payday loans when an emergency arises, but the high interest on search options further aggravates their financial instability. On-demand pay is a much more sustainable option. 2. Financial well-being leads to physical well-being Stress associated with financial instability can cause serious health consequences. Options like on-demand pay allow workers to maintain a good work/life balance and be more productive at work by reducing financial worries and stress. Providing employees more say over their remuneration improves their general quality of life. The drawbacks for employees 1. Fees On-demand pay has an additional fee, the same as paying ATM fees. It can be frustrating for employees to pay a fee for receiving their wages. 2. Taxes While most on-demand pay services don’t tax employee withdrawals, these transactions are still liable to taxation. Employers are required to detect these taxes from the upcoming paychecks making the final payout less than the employee anticipated. Benefits for employers 1. Better employee retention rates Employers who offer on-demand pay are seen as more caring by the workforce, improving their employer value. It helps with employee retention and attracts others to work for the organization. 2. More productive employees Personal finance issues are highly distracting for employees. When you offer on-demand pay, you provide employees with financial security and a sense of stability. This encourages and motivates them to be more productive at work. The cons of on-demand pay for employers 1. Pay errors On-demand pay dramatically increases the number of transactions for the payroll. There are chances that employees will receive paychecks that include paid on-demand hours. Such errors mean employers pay the wages twice. 2. Taxes As mentioned above, employers must deduct taxes on on-demand wages when they issue standard paychecks; failing to do so makes them liable to action from the IRS. How Truein can help employers? Truein is a cloud-based, hardwareless employee time and attendance software that features scheduling and overtime management. Managers and supervisors can use it to accurately calculate the work hours to ensure that employees are paid only once. As it easily integrates with most payroll systems, it can minimize the chances of pay errors. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope you now understand how on-demand pay work. It is a tool that, if implemented correctly, can help both employers and employees. It can significantly boost productivity by relieving employees of financial stress resulting in a more productive and better-engaged workforce. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form