Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice jatinb Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Top 6 tips for efficient onboarding of your ever changing ‘contract staff’ Top 6 tips for efficient onboarding of your ever changing ‘contract staff’ July 23, 2024 Contract staff keeps changing and the changeover is so frequent that companies don’t bother with systematic onboarding. They are tracked through manual registers and their documents lie with the contractor agency. Sounds familiar? You don’t have to row in the same boat. There are solutions to ensure that even contract staff is onboarded efficiently. Every step in the process can be transparent and easily backtracked. Let’s jump straight in and uncover some secrets. Table of Contents Tip 1: Let the contract workers self-onboard themselves Tip 2: Register the contractor agency in your attendance system Tip 3: Onboard just once Tip 4: Manage their shifts automatically Tip 5: Contract staff rules and compliances can be complicated. Make it easy for them. Tip 6: Let them mark attendance on day one even remotely Single source of truth Tip 1: Let the contract workers self-onboard themselves When it comes to contract staff, you don’t really know how long they will stick around. You may want to avoid time spent on creating ID cards. Afterall, you might see a new face tomorrow at your construction site or retail store. How can you make the onboarding hassle-free? Simply ask the new staff to register their selfie on your face detection attendance system . Their face is their ID. Tip 2: Register the contractor agency in your attendance system It is a big process to get documents from the new contract staff, scan them and store them in the system. Companies outsource this to agencies but they lose transparency and efficiency. The documents are stored in an inefficient physical or digital folder system. It is not easy to pull the documents out when you need them. Are you running a risk? You sure are. You don’t know who turns up at your office everyday for work. There can be legal hassle eventually. You can have all documents handy right in your attendance system. Simply share access to your attendance admin portal with your contractor agency. You can check if the agency is using any contractor time-tracking apps . Maintain just one system of truth. Tip 3: Onboard just once A contract worker working with you a year back may come today. Do you onboard him again? No. Save yourself and the worker this hassle. Your attendance system can have an easy deactivation – activation feature which lets you accept old employees back in the system. And guess what? It has his past attendance records so you know his track record. Besides, his documents and every other detail is handy already. You can welcome old employees back within a day. Be agile with efficient attendance systems Tip 4: Manage their shifts automatically Don’t let your contractor workers struggle with information on their ever-changing shifts. Nor should you suffer trying to allocate shifts to them. Try to bring in an attendance system that allows you to automatically assign shifts based on punch-in times or based on admin configurations. They can see their allocated shift in the system too. If payments are based on shifts, an automatic calculation based on records in a face attendance system can be a blessing. Tip 5: Contract staff rules and compliances can be complicated. Make it easy for them. You can set your face attendance system to include all the rules you want according to the company overtime policy . For example, mark half day after 1 p.m., pay overtime after 9 hours, mark late after 9 a.m., give public holiday on 26th January and so on. The attendance system can do all the tracking and provide full reports. You don’t have to ask the contract worker to manually track all of it and your admin does not have to reconcile everything manually. Onboarding a contract staff has never been so easy. They just show up everyday to work – the rest is taken care of by advanced face attendance systems. Tip 6: Let them mark attendance on day one even remotely You don’t have to ask contractor workers to report to head office on their first day if their actual site is somewhere in the field. They can mark selfie attendance from app based attendance systems . They just need their own smartphone or a simple tablet at the site office. It is especially true in case of advanced face attendance systems like Truein. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Single source of truth Most companies have a very clear onboarding process for new employees but they don’t apply the same rigour to contract staff onboarding . The agencies they outsource to do not have advanced systems either. Face attendance systems like Truein bring transparency, automation and compliance to the process and it can be shared with staffing agencies. One system of truth for everything from onboarding to attendance and reporting makes the entire system efficient. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Effective Onboarding: 10 Tips for Effective Onboarding Process How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? How Smart Attendance Systems Using IoT & Face Recognition are Changing the Modern Workforce Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What is Facial Clocking and Advantages of using it at the Workplace What is Facial Clocking and Advantages of using it at the Workplace June 25, 2024 Very few biometric technologies are attracting as much attention as facial recognition. Facial recognition technology offers a host of benefits such as authentication, monitoring, access control, indexing, and maintenance of surveillance applications. Face recognition systems have led to the advancement of multimedia information access. Also, implementing network access control via face recognition not only makes it virtually impossible for hackers to steal a user’s password but also improves human-computer interaction. This is one of the reasons why facial recognition time clocking is gaining popularity. On a side note, Truein for a limited time is offering an “absolutely free trial” of its contactless face recognition time clock system for up to 90 users. Fill out this single-page form to start your free trial immediately. Here we are going to explore the scope and advantages of the face recognition time clock system for companies. Table of Contents What is a Facial Recognition Time Clock System? How Facial Recognition Works? 8 Advantages Of Using Face Recognition Time Clock System 1. Automated Time Tracking System 2. Cost-Effective 3. Touchless Sign In System: A Post Pandemic Requirement 4. Facial Recognition With Ageing Changes and Accessories 5. More Accurate and Better Worker Attendance 6. The Ubiquity Of Cameras On Mobile Devices 7. Easy To Manage 8. Smart Integration Applications of Face Recognition Time Clock System Conclusion What is a Facial Recognition Time Clock System? Simply put, a face recognition time clock makes use of facial recognition technology to identify and verify a person and mark attendance automatically. Fingerprint scanning systems are almost the standard for attendance systems but the recent struggle with the pandemic has brought forth the issue with systems that require physical contact. A facial recognition time clocking system is a contactless technology that provides freedom from any physical interaction between the man and the machine. It is much easier to understand how a time clock system with face recognition can make the clock-in and clock-out easier if we know how the technology works. How Facial Recognition Works? A facial recognition software captures and compares patterns on a person’s face and analyses the details to identify and verify the individual. While the underlying system is complex, the whole technology can be broken down into three steps: Face Detection: An essential step is locating human faces in real-time Transform Data: Once captured, the analogue facial information is transformed into a set of data or vectors based on a person’s facial features Face Match: The system matches the data above with the one in the database for verification Almost every big tech company including Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and Cisco is leading the effort to make face recognition more mainstream. There are many reasons to adopt the technology. 8 Advantages Of Using Face Recognition Time Clock System Apart from being efficient, self-managed, and highly scalable, these systems offer unmatched advantages. 1. Automated Time Tracking System Entry and exit time monitoring done manually or with other biometric systems can be fully automated with a facial recognition time clock system. There is no need for human intervention or physical validation as the system’s advanced algorithms can locate and identify faces autonomously. It is effortless to track the working time, clock in and clock out for employees with facial recognition. 2. Cost-Effective A facial recognition time clock system can save business resources by automatic employee time tracking. A solution like Truein can be used on mobile devices making it more affordable for small-scale and medium businesses. Irrespective of the business size, such a time clock system can: Increase employee productivity by 10% Cut administrative costs by 5-10% Save 15% supervision time, helping supervisors with attendance control The cost savings are even higher as data received from the face recognition-based time clock system is in real-time and valid. 3. Touchless Sign In System: A Post Pandemic Requirement Pandemics like Covid 19 can be better managed by minimizing physical contact in public places and work environments. Post pandemic there has been a significant increase in demand and adoption of contactless technologies. The industry has recognized the benefits of facial recognition and the adoption of a time clock system like Truein. Workplaces and multi-tenant environments can greatly reduce the frequency of contact between individuals, thus minimizing the risk of virus transmission. 4. Facial Recognition With Ageing Changes and Accessories Face recognition time clock systems are not dependent on a few facial features but they are highly robust and identify a face on several data points. Therefore, these systems can screen for face masks and identify people without removing the mask or any change of facial attributes like beard, specs etc. It is a major advantage over any other biometric system as employees don’t have to take off their masks. Modern-day time clock systems use highly accurate face recognition algorithms that can also track changes in facial attributes like glasses, beards, hats, etc. 5. More Accurate and Better Worker Attendance Industrial floor time frauds are common worldwide and one of the most common work ethics violations. While a vast majority of workers are honest, but the nuisance of buddy punching cannot be ruled out. Teaming up with staff members or security personnel, some workers skip work and still get paid. Such time fraud is not only detrimental to companies but is also unfair towards honest contributing workers. With a face recognition time clock system, the entire environment is automated. You won’t just take the attendance but also automatically record the entry-exit time of the employees. It also adds to the security of the workplace as the system can recognize who left the designated area and when accurately. 6. The Ubiquity Of Cameras On Mobile Devices Systems like Truein make use of mobile devices for time and attendance using facial recognition . Nearly all smartphones, tablets, and laptops have built-in front-facing cameras. This implies there is no need for any additional hardware to implement a facial recognition time clock system. This is cost-effective and convenient as compared to other biometric systems like fingerprint scanners. As every employee is already accustomed to the use of the front-facing camera on their mobile device, there is no need for any training or orientation for work-from-home employees. These systems have intuitive UI, easy for anyone to use. 7. Easy To Manage As compared to manual attendance systems, AI-based time clock systems are highly automated. These systems store and update day-to-day records in real-time. From maintaining daily check-in and check-out time to preparing high-accurate timesheets for individual employees, facial recognition time clock systems are programmed to handle it all on a very large scale. Imagine handling a large crowd of 10,000 people without any fuss and recording the attendance in an organized manner. Such is the efficiency of the AI facial recognition time clock system. 8. Smart Integration Integrating a face recognition time clock system with any other HRMS or Payroll system is quite easy. As these systems are modular and highly customizable, the time-in time-out and date formats can be customized to be compatible with other systems implemented in an organization. It makes organizing data a lot easier. Also, the time zone settings can be easily changed as per geo-location that making it possible to use software worldwide without any additional requirement. A company with geographically distributed offices can implement a GPS-based attendance system for attendance monitoring in all the offices. Applications of Face Recognition Time Clock System Attendance and Leave Management : The most obvious application of these systems is for attendance recording and leave management . As these systems work on face identification, they are immune to malpractices like buddy punching and timesheet manipulation. Access Control : Face recognition time clock systems can also be used for access control applications, such as office access and computer login. These systems can also be programmed to monitor employees based on their facial identities. Surveillance : Face recognition time clock systems can also have surveillance applications to boost the security of the premises. It is beneficial for securing large office spaces and identifying unauthorized personnel. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Face recognition time clock systems are modern utilities that are a requirement of even the post-pandemic era. These systems make employees’ attendance tracking accurate while saving costs. Such a system also adds a layer of security in the workplace. Facial recognition time clock systems are the best modern-day solution for tracking employee hours. If your organization is still burdened by a manual attendance system, it’s time to upgrade to a facial recognition time clock system. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein face recognition attendance system. Schedule a Demo Schedule a Demo Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It How Smart Attendance Systems Using IoT & Face Recognition are Changing the Modern Workforce Effective Strategies for Managing Overtime in the Workplace Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Fraud »  					What Is Buddy Punching and How To Prevent It? What Is Buddy Punching and How To Prevent It? June 25, 2024 Like most businesses, you also want your employees to be cordial and look out for one another. What to do when some employees start exploiting this relationship and start punching each other in and out at work? This is known as buddy punching or buddy clocking where some employees may illegally punch in for other employees. As a business owner, It isn’t a pleasant experience to realize your employees are committing time theft, it creates a culture of dishonesty, and you can end up paying for work that was never done. In the United States alone, it is estimated that time theft is costing businesses $50 billion annually. Table of Contents What is buddy punching? Negative Effects of Buddy Punching: More than just extra business cost Rise in buddy punching culture Low morale for high performing staff How to prevent buddy punching at work 1. Have a strict zero-tolerance policy 2. Install CCTV 3. Update legacy attendance systems with modern attendance systems 4. GPS Tracking 5. Geofencing 6. Try Truein Solutions Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions Is Buddy Punching Illegal? How should you tackle/deal with employees who have been caught buddy punching? What industries can most benefit from the prevention of buddy punching? What is buddy punching? Simply put, buddy punching is when one employee clocks in for another employee and does attendance punching on their behalf. This is a common occurrence in instances like when an employee is running late and asks a colleague to clock in for them to avoid notice or detection by the floor manager or supervisor. According to a 2017 Pollfish survey involving 1,000 employees, 16% admitted to buddy punching. Furthermore, the study also found that the most common mistake committed while submitting timesheets is employees adding an extra 15 minutes to their clock time. This might not seem like a challenge, but when you put things into perspective you realize the deeper consequence this can have on the annual payroll bill. The latest U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data indicates that there are more than 78 million hourly workers currently. If we assume that 16% of them participated in buddy punching and added 15 minutes to a co-worker’s timesheet, this will end up adding more than $373 million to the employers’ annual payroll bill. In some extreme cases, some employees use buddy punching to take entire days off work without getting caught or accrue extra overtime. This not only tricks employers into paying for large chunks of time employees have not worked for, but is also detrimental to the morale of an honest workforce. Whether you are a large enterprise or a small business with tight margins, buddy punching is time theft and dishonesty that must be dealt with. Negative Effects of Buddy Punching: More than just extra business cost The cost implication is not only the negative impact buddy punching has in the workplace, there are many more. If you are not able to prevent buddy punching it can correlate with the following problems in your workplace. Rise in buddy punching culture When new team members witness seasoned employees participating in time theft, they think of it as a norm. Especially, if there is no feedback around buddy punching, employees will feel it acceptable to continue to do so. This will also result in slacking on their responsibilities. Low morale for high performing staff Employee absenteeism due to buddy punching puts pressure on the rest of the workforce as they need to pick up the slack and do extra work. This is outright unfair for honest employees who exhibit strong performance. They are compensated the same amount for all the extra work. Lack of equal treatment and fairness is one of the major reasons for employee turnover in the workplace. How to prevent buddy punching at work 1. Have a strict zero-tolerance policy The most effective way to eliminate buddy punching is to address it head-on without showing any leniency. Putting a formal buddy punching policy in place will ensure your employees are aware of the consequences they can face. Having a clear zero-tolerance policy will also let the new employees know of the stance the company has against time theft. If you do not have a zero-tolerance policy already in place, work on one, print it out and put it where all staff can see it. A formal buddy punching policy also gives grounds for termination. 2. Install CCTV A seemingly simple solution to prevent budding punching is to record who is clocking in. Installing CCTV cameras at the right places, you can verify whether the employee was present at the time and place when they were clocked in or clocked out. While this solution seems simple, it has its shortfalls. Primarily monitoring CCTV footage is a time-consuming task. It is a full-time task to figure out who is where and at what time. Also, the cameras and other equipment require frequent maintenance. As all the components are serialized, even if one breaks down everything can stop working. 3. Update legacy attendance systems with modern attendance systems While card punching systems are a norm, they do leave a lot of scope for time theft. Biometric attendance systems offer an excellent improvement. As it requires thumbprints, face recognition or retinal scans to clock in an employee, it is a failsafe mechanism to ensure that the right employee is clocking in. With biometric clocks employees were able to limit time theft to only 3% of the employees of the total who were buddy punching previously. Face recognition attendance systems make time theft virtually impossible and can keep employees from abusing the timekeeping system. To better adapt to the needs of a contact-free work environment in the post-pandemic era there are touchless face recognition based employee attendance systems available like the one offered by Truein. 4. GPS Tracking In workplaces where employees roam over a larger area, preventing buddy punching can be challenging as managers need more resources to track employees. An easy solution is to use timekeeping software and mobile GPS. Such systems can track an employee’s location as well as their hours. Timekeeping solutions with inbuilt GPS tracking and/or geofencing are available, which allow an employee to clock in only when they are within a certain radius of the business. GPS tracking employees for timekeeping is not expensive as GPS can be activated on their smartphones. 5. Geofencing A more restricted and arguably the most effective way to manage employees and avoid buddy punching is geofencing. As geofencing relies on GPS, WiFi and cellular data, it can create an invisible barrier within which a person can clock in. You can decide at what distance you want your employees to be able to clock in, be in the parking lot or the front door. Once this digital barrier is set, employees can mark attendance only when they are inside. You can enable automatic punching for employees when they are within a certain distance or allow manual clock in through an app. With geofencing, employees cannot clock in when they are away from work, or can’t be buddy punched by any other employee. 6. Try Truein Solutions A company focused on providing seamless staff attendance, Truein leverages the advancements in Artificial Intelligence technologies to prevent the menace of buddy punching. Their touchless face recognition based employee attendance system enables employees to clock in using their phones or tablets. There is no complicated hardware needed to implement their attendance system. Truein’s attendance system also offers selfie-based geofencing, leave management and automated reports. Here is a case study on how we solved the buddy punching issue in real estate industry . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Largely buddy punching is a side effect of more pressing attendance issues, rather than being the problem itself. You must take a closer look at your attendance policy to ensure that it is fair towards employees and not too constrictive. Still, buddy punching can be the Achilles’ heel for any business and must be prevented. Having an effective attendance solution that relies on modern technologies like AI, facial recognition and geofencing are recommended to prevent negative impacts on productivity and costs. Frequently Asked Questions Is Buddy Punching Illegal? The legal policies governing how companies handle buddy punching vary by state and country. However, in most cases, time theft through buddy punching does constitute fraud and can be ample grounds for termination without warning. How should you tackle/deal with employees who have been caught buddy punching? Most employees practising buddy punching are found to have a sense of entitlement. Rather than terminating their employment, you must issue a warning notice. Also, establish clear communication feedback where managers can explain the consequences of buddy punching to their teams. What industries can most benefit from the prevention of buddy punching? Retail, construction , hospitality and information technology witness buddy punching more than any other industry. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 4 Different Types Of Time Theft and 5 Ways To Prevent It? Ghost Employees: How To Prevent and Detect It? What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form