Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Tips for Creating a Perfect Employee Roster Tips for Creating a Perfect Employee Roster May 20, 2024 An employee roster is more than a simple list of how many hours your employees have worked in a week. It is an effective tool to manage the employees’ productivity by providing an inside into their hours of operations and job responsibilities. When utilized appropriately, a shift rooster can be a vital organizational tool for businesses to allocate resources and manage workforce availability efficiently. It would help if you had proper rostering to ensure the right employees are in the right place at the right time, enhancing productivity and employee satisfaction. In this article, we will look at some ways of creating the most productive employee rooster to help your business meet its goals. Table of Contents What is employee roster? Types of roster 1. Duty roster 2. Flexible roster 3. Staggered roster 4. Staff roster 5. Shift roster 6. Working roster How To Roster Staff Effectively? 1. Purchase the roster software and plan its components 2. Decide schedule options, then fill your shifts 3. Allocate busy shifts to skilled staff 4. Have a proper schedule for absence management and unavailability 5. Assign tasks to the best team who works well together 6. Allow your employees to check their roster How To Make A Staff Roster In Excel? How can Truein help with employee rostering? 1. It saves time to record attendance manually 2. Prevent Clock In Clock out spams 3. Keep employees informed about their attendance Conclusion FAQs 1. How to make a good duty roster for staff? 2. What parameters must you consider before creating an employee roster? 3. What are the principles of good rostering? 4. What is the purpose of rostering software? What is employee roster? Commonly known as rota or roster, an employee roster is a list of employees and their tasks to perform. With a roster, you can assign a schedule of activities to every employee. For example, one can assign a schedule of meeting or a proper list of tasks to be completed. By using an employee roster, an organization can efficiently improve its workplace productivity and achieve business goals in a systematic manner. When employees have a roster, they are more alert regarding their tasks and duties to perform. It helps to keep them informed. Types of roster As a manager, your responsibility includes understanding different types of rosters that an organization can implement. Each type of online rostering tool provides certain benefits over others, and when managers are aware of each type, they can pick one which best fits the demand and supply goals. 1. Duty roster A duty roster is a scheduling method managers can use to ensure that the right number of employees are assigned the duties. In this method, managers assign specific duties or tasks to employees based on their roles or skill sets. It outlines who is responsible for particular tasks, such as opening or closing a facility, managing customer service, or handling specialized functions. Duty rosters ensure that essential functions are covered efficiently and each employee knows their responsibilities. 2. Flexible roster If a company’s business operations allow flexible schedules, then HR can have a flexible roster that gives employees more control over their schedules. This type of rostering accommodates the individual preferences and work-life balance of workers. You can allow employees to choose their start and end times in the flexible roster, provided they fulfill their required hours. The above shift roster boosts morale and engagement by empowering employees to tailor their schedules to their needs. 3. Staggered roster A staggered roster is the type of employee roster that creates shifts that start and end at different times to ensure coverage of all operating hours. Restaurant managers usually use this type of working roster to schedule more employees for dinner shifts than lunch. Other industries using staggered rosters are healthcare, manufacturing, and customer service. It is excellent for resource utilization and allows managers to hire employees with different lifestyles. 4. Staff roster A staff roster is the simplest and is designed to distribute work hours fairly among all employees. With a staff roster, managers can ensure an evenly distributed workload while maintaining appropriate staffing levels. This type of roster promotes equity and prevents overburdening specific team members, ensuring every worker gets the same work and rest periods. Staff rosters are commonly used in industries with consistent work patterns. 5. Shift roster A common type of roster in industries that have 24/7 operations, shift roster divides employees into distinct shifts, each covering a specific period. Managers can allow workers to take different shifts regularly or put them on the same shift depending on the requirements. Shift rosters benefits in many ways like help ensure 24/7 coverage and manage workload fluctuations. 6. Working roster A working roster tracks regular working hours, rest days, and overtime. It outlines the days and times each employee is scheduled to work, providing a clear overview of their work schedule for a specified period. This type of roster facilitates better workforce management allowing employees to plan their personal and professional activities and allowing managers to allocate resources efficiently. As evident, each type of roster serves different staffing needs and varies according to industries. The choice of the employee roster type must depend on factors like business operations, employee preferences, industry regulations, and continuous coverage requirements of the company. How To Roster Staff Effectively? Follow these 6 tips for creating a perfect employee roster: 1. Purchase the roster software and plan its components Automation is essential to perfect an employee roster for your business. Invest in reliable rostering software that suits your organization’s needs. Pick a software solution that provides a complete set of tools for rostering. Plan out the components you’ll use within the software, such as shift templates, employee attendance, absence and time off management , and reporting features. Picking an employee rostering software that can be customized to align with your business requirements will help streamline the workforce scheduling process and enhance accuracy. 2. Decide schedule options, then fill your shifts Managers sometimes think of the staff names first before determining the schedule options, skills, or types of roles they need to fill. It leads to inefficient rostering and a mismatch between required staff and available employees. Determine the required shifts types, such as morning, afternoon, evening, or overnight shifts, the length of each shift and any specific requirements for each role. Once you clearly understand these scheduling needs, fill the shifts in the roster software based on employee availability and skill sets. 3. Allocate busy shifts to skilled staff Use data analytics and alerts to identify peak or busy periods such that you are well-staffed when the requirement for skills arises. Assign the most experienced employees to cover these shifts, as skilled staff can handle increased workloads more effectively. It ensures that high-quality service is delivered during demanding times. This is how managers can maintain productivity and customer satisfaction during busy periods. 4. Have a proper schedule for absence management and unavailability The success of the shift roster is also affected by how easy it is for employees to request leave of absence . Managers must establish a clear and organized process for employees to submit time off requests or communicate their unavailability. This is another reason to use roster software like Truein that accommodates absence management. 5. Assign tasks to the best team who works well together Always consider the dynamics among employees when creating teams or assigning shifts. When put together, groups and individuals that work well together and complement each other’s strengths can be highly productive. A proper employee roster can lead to effective teamwork, enhance productivity, improve communication, and create a positive work environment. 6. Allow your employees to check their roster Another way to create a perfect roster is to allow employees access to their schedules through the rostering software. Allowing employees to view their work schedules in advance helps them plan their personal lives, such as managing doctor appointments. Transparent access to schedules promotes better employee engagement and reduces confusion. How To Make A Staff Roster In Excel? It is easiest to make a staff roster in excel. Furthermore, find the steps to follow which helps create a staff roster: Open Microsoft Excel Under the tab “File”, click “New” Inside search bar, type “Schedule” and then press enter Scroll through the number of templates to find one that suits your business Click “Create” and your roster in excel is open Otherwise, you can also use our readymade staff roster template . Screenshot of Staff Roster in Excel How can Truein help with employee rostering? 1. It saves time to record attendance manually Truein eliminates the need to record attendance on manual excel spreadsheets. It provides a complete employee rostering solution with its AI-powered features for employee attendance and time tracking. It has a shift schedule management option that managers can use to create an employee roster to share with employees. With central attendance and leave data, managers are aware of the availability of employees. 2. Prevent Clock In Clock out spams As a cloud-based face recognition attendance system, it’s highly accurate and protects against attendance spamming and buddy punching. 3. Keep employees informed about their attendance It also encourages productivity and satisfaction as employees have transparent access to their attendance and shift data. Employees can anytime check their attendance, work hours, leaves, etc using Truein. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion A perfect employee roster leverages technology to strategically allocate shifts by focusing on employee needs and skill sets. With roster software like Truein, businesses can optimize their scheduling processes , improve workforce management, and enhance overall operational efficiency. FAQs 1. How to make a good duty roster for staff? Creating a good duty roster for staff starts with allocating shifts and responsibilities, allocating busiest periods of shifts to most-skilled employees, etc. This way, each employee stays aware of their responsibilities. It would help if you had strategic planning, effective communication, and flexibility to create a good staff roster. Start by analyzing your organization’s workload patterns and match them with employee availability and preferences. Then make a roster that complies with labor laws and provides flexibility for work-life balance. 2. What parameters must you consider before creating an employee roster? You need to understand the organization’s demands at different times. Consider each employee’s availability and skill sets, labor laws, time-off requests, and preferences. 3. What are the principles of good rostering? Fairness, efficiency, skill-based task allocation, transparency, compliance, flexibility, and open communication are the principles of good rostering. 4. What is the purpose of rostering software? The purpose of rostering software is to improve workforce efficiency & save costs with careful planning of employee shifts. Proper rostering planning can help optimize labor costs, reduce absenteeism, boost productivity, boost staff morale thereby improving retention. Optimally utilizing your rostering data can also assist in headcount forecasting for future business needs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Construction Cost Management - Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Logistics & Supply Chain Management »  					Logistics Workforce Management Logistics Workforce Management May 27, 2024 Managing distributed labor and fleet challenges are complicated for the logistics industry. More than simple workforce management processes is required for this industry. That’s why logistic workforce management requires an integrated set of processes to optimize the productivity of its employees. Effective logistic workforce management refers to strategically planning, coordinating, and optimizing workers within the logistics and supply chain industry for higher customer and employee satisfaction. The workforce management processes in supply chain management are distributed among recruitment, deployment, and management of the workers. The prime objective is to ensure smooth operations within distribution centers, warehouses, and transportation networks. You can benefit from the tips included in this pose for efficiently managing the logistics workforce. These tips can help businesses improve productivity while simultaneously reducing operational costs and in turn improve the overall supply chain performance. Table of Contents Ten tips to improve logistics workforce management 1. Hire the Right Staff 2. Invest rightly in DC managers & supervisors 3. Retain the workforce 4. Develop internal managers/supervisors 5. Hire temporary staff 6. Use a labor management system 7. Measure individual productivity 8. Develop relationships with staffing agencies 9. Invest in logistics training 10. Outsource warehouse management Advantages of Logistics Workforce Management Conclusion FAQs 1. What is workforce management in Logistics? 2. What does workforce management do? 3. What are the four basic steps of WFM? Ten tips to improve logistics workforce management 1. Hire the Right Staff Irrespective of the industry, organizations cannot expect high productivity and efficiency if the right people are not hired. Hiring the right staff is one of the best ways to reduce turnover and improve productivity. An essential step towards improving workforce logistics is creating a hiring process that identifies workers with the right skills, experience, and qualifications to take specific roles within logistics operations. In the logistics industry, the skills are relatively easy to learn. This is why you must focus on hiring candidates for their attitude over their skills. Anyone can know how to operate a forklift or an RF gun with little training, but attitude and ambitions are qualities that can’t be easily nurtured. To hire the right staff, you should have a well-designed recruitment process to hire employees well-suited for their tasks. 2. Invest rightly in DC managers & supervisors Most companies think workforce management in supply chain management is about micromanaging the lowest-level staff. It’s a misplaced judgment because distribution center (DC) managers and supervisors disproportionately impact logistics workers’ satisfaction and retention. HR managers hardly ever have a direct conversation with the logistic workforce; the mid-level managers represent your company for them. You must train these mid-level managers to empower them with informed decision-making and improve their interpersonal skills. If DC managers and supervisors have strong leadership qualities, it will create a cohesive and motivated workforce. 3. Retain the workforce A significant challenge of logistic workforce management is to retain qualified, dependable workers once you have hired them. On average, recruiting and training staff in the logistics supply chain costs thousands of dollars. The cost might vary depending on the role’s responsibilities, but you will lose big time if you fail to retain the workforce. To reduce turnover, you must implement strategies that engage employees, recognize their hard work, and reward high performance. And remember to provide them with enough opportunities for career advancement. Evaluate the current salary and benefits package to ensure no dissatisfaction among workers because of compensation. Also, miscalculated pay i.e. overpayment or underpayment due to mistracking of employee work hours can result in dissatisfaction among affected employees. An accurate time tracking software that automatically clocks in and clocks out employee timings can help easily resolve such issues. Along with this, a positive work environment and clear growth paths encourage employees to stay committed to the organization. 4. Develop internal managers/supervisors The most common approach to filling open positions in logistics companies is looking for outside talent. Unlike tech companies that prefer hiring within the organization to foster loyalty and a sense of security among workers, the logistic workforce does not enjoy the same approach. Another way to improve WFM logistics is to develop internal talent. When you have invested so many resources into training staff, why not give opportunities to high-potential employees to move up in their careers? Identify such talent, provide them with training and mentorship, and encourage them to take on leadership roles. Internal promotions also help maintain institutional knowledge and culture. 5. Hire temporary staff Temporary staff logistics companies can be a valuable tool to hire full-time employees. Create opportunities for skilled and suitable candidates to shift from temporary workforce to full-time roles. Managers within supply chain management actively assess the skills and work ethics of the temporary workforce, and if found culturally fit, they should be offered a transition to permanent positions. It will save time and resources on recruiting and training. 6. Use a labor management system A labor management system (LMS) can be instrumental in automating various aspects of workforce management in logistics. It facilitates optimizing schedules, task assignments, and performance tracking. Truein is a robust attendance and time-tracking software that can be a complete LMS. Due to its AI-powered algorithms and cloud infrastructure, it can be deployed to cover distributed supply chain workforce. I t provides real-time insights into workforce productivity through attendance, overtime, and location tracking. Insights provided by Truein can be instrumental in introducing timely adjustments for the logistics workforce. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 7. Measure individual productivity LMS is focused on improving teams’ productivity, but you should also focus on monitoring individual productivity. A significant challenge of workforce management in supply chain management is identifying and improving productivity gaps. Train mid-level managers to set individual productivity goals for tasks. Then they should monitor workers’ performance, identify improvement areas, and fulfill training needs. Share the performance metrics and key performance indicators (KPIs) with workers so they know what they need to do to improve their efficiency, accuracy, and contribution to overall operational goals. 8. Develop relationships with staffing agencies Logistics and supply chains are labor-intensive industries. You need strategies to maintain enough workforce to manage fluctuating order volumes economically. If you rush to hire staff every time there is high demand, you must pay higher wages. Building partnerships with staffing agencies provides a flexible and scalable workforce solution. It allows you to keep the permanent staff to a minimum and have access to temporary staff. Staffing agencies manage a pool of pre-screened candidates you can hire during peak seasons or sudden demand spikes. 9. Invest in logistics training You already have a training program implemented to onboard new hires, but how effective that program is in getting the logistics workforce to maximum productivity needs attention. One way to improve workforce management software for the logistics industry is to provide regular training to enhance employee skills and adaptability. Develop training programs tailored to your logistics operations, such as safety protocols, inventory management, equipment operation, and customer service. A well-trained staff is efficient and more productive. 10. Outsource warehouse management Warehouse management requires a large number of workers. Also, training staff for warehouse management can be expensive. A better alternative can be outsourcing warehouse management to specialized providers. Such service providers have the expertise, technology, and experience to create optimized processes to alleviate the burden of managing daily operations. Advantages of Logistics Workforce Management Efficient logistics workforce management offers several benefits, such as streamlining business operations, better order fulfillment, improved customer satisfaction, reduced labor costs, and enhanced inventory management. Conclusion Workforce management in supply chains is critical for the smooth functioning of the whole supply chain. You can optimize your logistics workforce for improved efficiency with the tips shared here. It also offers a competitive edge over competitors in the dynamic logistics industry. FAQs 1. What is workforce management in Logistics? Logistics workforce management is the strategic planning, allocation, and coordination of human resources within in supply chain to optimize operations. 2. What does workforce management do? Workforce management ensures that the right person with the required skills and qualifications is hired and deployed efficiently. In the logistics industry, effective workforce management leads to improved productivity, cost savings, and overall operational excellence. 3. What are the four basic steps of WFM? The four essential workforce management (WFM) strategy steps are forecasting labor requirements, staffing, managing employee time and attendance, and optimizing workforce performance. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning Security Workforce Management Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form