Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					Is the 9×80 Work Schedule Right for Your Organization? Is the 9×80 Work Schedule Right for Your Organization? August 29, 2024 Evolving workplaces require innovative solutions to ensure high employee productivity and satisfaction. Since the pandemic, workers have been more adamant about work-life balance, and in doing so, they demand better scheduling. One approach that businesses can take is to offer a 9/80 work schedule. The 9/80 work schedule is a compressed work schedule where employees work 80 hours over nine days in two weeks instead of the traditional 10-day. This kind of shift arrangement allows employees to enjoy a four-day workweek every other week. The 9/80 work schedule can be particularly impactful for industries with blue-collar workers. It allows for extended periods of continuous work, which can benefit manufacturing, construction, and other sectors where project continuity is crucial. At the same time, workers get extended time off every other week, which benefits them. According to a study by the Society for Human Resource Management , 43% of organizations offer a compressed workweek, highlighting the growing acceptance of alternative schedules like the 9/80 workweek. Table of Contents What is the 9/80 shift schedule? Comparison with the traditional 40-hour work week Example of an 9/80 shift schedule Advantages of the 9/80 Work Schedule Enhanced Work-Life Balance Boosted Productivity Employer Benefits Reduced Commuting Time Increased Employee Satisfaction Flexible Scheduling Options Improved Morale and Engagement Challenges of Adopting a 9x80 Work Schedule Adaptation Period Scheduling Issues Impact on Team Coordination Risk of Burnout Potential Coverage Gaps Employee Resistance Issues with Overtime Difficulty in keeping accurate time tracking record Managing Workload Consistency Is a 9/80 work schedule right for your business? How to implement it? Effective Communication Pilot/Trial Program Utilizing Technology Comprehensive Training Flexibility and Adjustment Regular Feedback Collection Monitoring and Evaluation Managing Workload Distribution How does Truein help with Employee shift scheduling? Conclusion What is the 9/80 shift schedule? The 9/80 work schedule is also called the 9/80 work schedule or 9 80 work week. It is an alternative work arrangement that compresses 80 hours of work into nine days over a two-week period. This work arrangement is beneficial for employers and employees. Employers get to keep the extended operation hours, which keeps productivity high. On the other hand, employees get to work their full hours while enjoying an additional day off every other week. The 9/80 work schedule meaning can be tricky to understand without a breakdown. Simply put, in this type of shift schedule, employees typically work eight 9-hour days and one 8-hour day over the course of two weeks. This is how they can work 80 hours in nide days, hence the name “9/80” or “9×80”. Compared to a traditional 40-hour workweek, the only distinguishing factor here is that the 9 9 80 work schedule keeps the same 40 hours of work but redistributes them to create an additional day off. Here’s how the 9/80 schedule shift works: Week 1: Four 9-hour days (Monday to Thursday) and one 8-hour day (Friday) Week 2: Four 9-hour days (Monday to Thursday) and one day off (Friday) Comparison with the traditional 40-hour work week Compared to the traditional 40-hour work week, the 9 /80 flex work schedule makes it possible to offer employees a three-day weekend every other week. There is no reduction in their total work hours. This can lead to improved work-life balance and potentially increased productivity. For example, in a traditional workweek, an employee might work from 9 AM to 5 PM five days a week. In a 9/80 flex schedule, they might work from 8 AM to 6 PM for eight days, 8 AM to 5 PM on one day, and have one day off completely. Example of an 9/80 shift schedule While there are several ways to redistribute work hours in such a schedule, to better understand how a 9 80 work schedule example might look in practice, let’s consider this scenario. Blue collar workers in a manufacturing unit can have 9 80 work week, which looks like this: First Work Week Day Hours Worked Start Time End Time Break Monday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Tuesday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Wednesday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Thursday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Friday 8 8:00 AM 5:00 PM 1 hour Total hours worked: 44 Second Work Week Day Hours Worked Start Time End Time Break Monday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Tuesday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Wednesday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Thursday 9 8:00 AM 6:00 PM 1 hour Friday 0 Off Off N/A Total hours worked: 36 In our 9/80 work schedule example, employees work 44 hours in the first week and 36 hours in the second week, totaling 80 hours with a full day off in the second week. Advantages of the 9/80 Work Schedule An additional day of time off is one of many advantages of adopting this work schedule. The benefits extend beyond extra time off. Enhanced Work-Life Balance Blue-collar workers usually are involved in laborious tasks. After a tiring day at work, no energy is left for personal time. The 9 80 flex schedule provides employees an additional day off every other week. This allows extended weekends to spend more individual time with family and friends. While it is a minor change, it can significantly improve work-life balance. It leads to happier and more satisfied employees. Boosted Productivity Several industries benefit from the increased productivity of adopting a 9/80 work schedule. Industry studies suggest that employees working on compressed schedules often report higher levels of job satisfaction and lower levels of stress . Employer Benefits For employers, compressed work weeks have multi-faceted benefits. Here are some: Reduced overhead costs : With offices closed for an additional day every other week, companies can save on utilities and other operational costs. For companies that employ large numbers of blue-collar workers, this can reduce overhead costs significantly. Extended operating hours : The 9/80 workweek schedule can allow businesses to extend their operating hours without incurring overtime costs. As overtime pay is usually 1.5 times the regular wages, this saves a lot in labor costs. Improved recruitment and retention : Offering flexible schedules can be a powerful tool for attracting and retaining top talent. As workers are seeking better work-life balance, they appreciate extra time off without losing pay. Reduced Commuting Time When there is an extra day off every two weeks, it is one less commute every two weeks. Employees save time commuting and reduce their carbon footprint. This can be particularly beneficial in areas with heavy traffic or long commute times. Increased Employee Satisfaction The alternative work schedule 9 80 often leads to higher job satisfaction. A survey by FlexJobs found that 80% of workers agree that they will be more dedicated and loyal to their employers if they have flexible work options . Flexible Scheduling Options The 9 80 flex work schedule allows for greater flexibility in scheduling. It helps companies manage shift schedules and improve employee satisfaction by evenly distributing their shifts. Improved Morale and Engagement Well-rested workers are physically and mentally more active. It naturally improves their morale and engagement. By offering flexible schedules like the 9 80 shift, companies can create a more profound connection with their employees as they know their employers care about their wellbeing. Challenges of Adopting a 9x80 Work Schedule The benefits of a 9×80 work schedule are tempting, but its successful implementation requires overcoming the associated challenges. Here are some of the common challenges faced by employers: Adaptation Period As employees have to work extended hours initially, transitioning to a 9 80 compressed work schedule will require an adjustment period. It can be challenging for some employees to adapt to extended workdays initially. Scheduling Issues Extra day time off and extended work hours can result in difficulty coordinating meetings and collaborative work. As different team members have other days off, scheduling issues can arise. Impact on Team Coordination Another challenge with team members potentially off on different days is coordination and communication. Managers may need extra effort and planning to ensure team coordination. Risk of Burnout Some roles in the manufacturing and construction industries are physically demanding. In such sectors, the extended workdays in a 9 80 work schedule can lead to fatigue and burnout if not appropriately managed. Potential Coverage Gaps For industries that require 24/7 shift coverage, adopting a 9 80 flex schedule can cause potential coverage gaps. It may require hiring more workers to cover shifts. Employee Resistance Not all employees may prefer the 9 80 alternative work schedule and can resist the change from the traditional 5-day workweek. Issues with Overtime If the employees working a 9 80 work schedule shift are allowed overtime, then overtime calculation can be challenging. Particularly in industries that are subject to strict labor regulations, extra planning is required. Difficulty in keeping accurate time tracking record Accurate time tracking becomes crucial with a 9 80 work schedule. Organizations need robust and flexible time and attendance systems to ensure accurate timekeeping. Managing Workload Consistency Balancing the workload over periods of differing work hours is also challenging. Ensuring a consistent workload across the longer and shorter weeks will require setting up uncommon task modifications and resource redistribution. Is a 9/80 work schedule right for your business? How to implement it? Whether a 9/80 work schedule is right for your business depends on whether your business can face the above mentioned challenges. Also, to what extent do the benefits of flexible and compressed work schedules impact your revenue, employee satisfaction, and overall work environment? You will decide if you should introduce such a work schedule. If you have decided to have an alternative 80-hour workweek schedule, here are the steps to effectively implement it. Effective Communication Communication is the key. Ensure clear communication with workers, explaining everything about the new work schedule. Tell them the 9 80 work schedule meaning and its implications on their work routine. Effective communication includes explaining the benefits, addressing concerns, and providing clear guidelines for the new schedule. Pilot/Trial Program Keep such a change out of the box company-wide. Start with a pilot program to test the impact of job schedule 9 80 on workers. A pilot program deployment will help you identify potential issues before full implementation so you can make adjustments and refinements necessary before the company-wide rollout. Utilizing Technology The 9 80 flex schedule differs from a shift that manual methods can manage. It would help if you leveraged technology solutions for scheduling, time tracking, and communication to manage it effectively. Software solutions like Truein can make advanced time-tracking and scheduling smooth. Comprehensive Training Provide thorough training to managers and employees on how the 9 80 work schedule works. Take help from institutional trainers to help workers and managers understand time management, maintain work-life balance, and communicate effectively in the new schedule. Flexibility and Adjustment It would help if you could adjust the schedule based on feedback and observed outcomes. Flexibility is crucial in making the 9 80 work schedule successful. If your employees request a change or improvement, be prompt to consider it. Regular Feedback Collection Being proactive will help eliminate conflicts and dissatisfaction in the workforce. Regularly collect feedback from employees and managers through surveys, focus groups, or one-on-one meetings. It will help identify and address issues with the 80-hour workweek schedule. Monitoring and Evaluation Like any other implementation in the workplace, continuously monitor productivity, employee satisfaction, and other vital metrics. It will provide a clear picture of the success of the 9 80 work week schedule. Data-driven decisions are necessary. Managing Workload Distribution Ensure that work is distributed evenly across the nine working days irrespective of work hours to prevent overload on certain days. This may require adjusting project timelines, deadlines, and team workflows. How does Truein help with Employee shift scheduling? We understand how alternative work schedules like the 9/80 work schedule can benefit businesses across industries. Therefore, Truein, our signature cloud-based time and attendance system, is flexible and robust and accommodates every requirement of such work schedules. Offering assisted work scheduling features, Truein allows easy setup and management of various work schedules based on data such as workers’ availability, skill sets, resources, etc. Its face recognition and GPS geofencing enabled time and attendance tracking, ensuring the precise recording of work hours and eliminating time theft. Powerful algorithms easily calculate 9 80 work schedules over time and share the data with HR and Payroll systems. Truein mobile app allows employees to clock in/out and view their schedules through a user-friendly mobile app. It is ideal for managing a 9/80 flex schedule, particularly in distributed workforce arrangements. Furthermore, the detailed reports and analytics help managers monitor the effectiveness of the 9 80 work schedule. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Alternative shifts like the 9×80 work schedule offer a unique approach to allow workers to have a work-life balance while maintaining productivity. Given its benefits of enhanced work-life balance, potential productivity boosts, and increased employee satisfaction, it is an attractive option for many organizations. However, 9/80 work week implementation is challenging. From scheduling complexities to potential burnout, there are several factors to consider. Successful implementation demands careful planning, clear communication, and a willingness to adapt based on feedback and results. Organizations considering this alternative work schedule should consider the pros and cons and start with a pilot program. By leveraging tools like Truein, companies can easily navigate the challenges and potentially reap the benefits of such a flexible work schedule. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Aug 29, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Aug 29, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Aug 29, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Aug 29, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Aug 29, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein was instrumental in helping the Schindler group manage their Contract Agencies and Cost Centers Customer Stories Sites 1 Staff 400 Country India Industry Manufacturing/Contractual Staff About SchindlerGroup The Schindler Group, or Schindler Holding Ltd., is a Swiss MNC that manufactures elevators, escalators, and moving walkways. The company was founded in Central Switzerland in 1874. Schindler is best known for their elevators for different types of buildings, including residential and commercial complexes. They are with their customers right from the planning stage to installation, maintenance, and modernization. Challenges The Schindler group is into manufacturing and has contractual staff working for them. The company is divided into multiple units or departments, and each unit is associated with a cost center. Their contractual staff is supplied by multiple contract agencies. Each staff member is thus associated with a department, cost center, and contract agency. The company faced several challenges when it came to its staff attendance. Let’s look at some of their major ones: They had a manual process of attendance capturing for their contractual staff, which was cumbersome and error-prone. Managing their contractor agencies was one of their biggest challenges. There were often reconciliation issues with the number of staff members sent by an agency and those actually reporting to work at the company. Each unit or department was associated with a cost center, which decides the number of staff members in each unit and their budgeting. Cost center management was done manually and was a tedious and time-consuming process. Each time there was a staff transfer, the department head had to assign the staff a new cost center manually. The process of taking in a fixed number of staff members from a contract agency, allocating them a department and cost center, and paying the contractor agency was manually managed and was cumbersome. They worked 24/7. Shift management and implementing policies around shifts were a challenge for them. They had to manually create spreadsheets as per labor laws for daily or monthly attendance reports. The month-end processing of salary was also a complex process. Several policies related to labor laws (such as late arrival, early departure, half-day, etc.) had to be taken into account, and all this was being managed manually. Solution Truein deployed kiosks for contractual staff attendance capture. The Truein Kiosk App was automated, face-recognition based, and captured attendance accurately. Centralized controls helped the department head or admin track the staff supplied by the contract agencies. The contract agency supervisor was given access to the Truein User App to view the attendance of the staff who checked into the system. This solved any reconciliation issues regarding staff supplied by the agency and those who actually reported for work. Truein's cost center mapping feature helped them manage their cost centers. When a staff member takes attendance, all three attributes associated with the member, namely the unit, cost center, and contract agency details, are captured. Truein's contractor-level features automated the processes related to contract agency management. Truein's auto-shift feature helped assign shifts automatically. Truein also offered them customizable policies for late marks, overtime, half-days, etc. Attendance restriction, wherein a laborer cannot work continuously for more than ten days, was another critical policy that Truein helped them implement. Truein automated the process of attendance report generation. They could now generate daily or monthly reports with a single click. Truein provided easy integration with 3rd party HR or payroll software and automated salary processing. Implementing labor law policies and salary processing was no more a task. Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein’s automated and foolproof attendance system streamlined and simplified the attendance process and helped prevent reconciliation issues. Centralized controls enabled tracing the number of staff members supplied by the contract agencies and those actually reporting to work. This brought about transparency in the process and prevented revenue leakages. The cost center mapping feature simplified cost center management and brought about transparency in the process. Improved shift planning with easy setup of shifts, including night shifts, enabled the staff to become more productive. Detailed reports generated with automated calculations and policies gave an overview of the attendance pattern of their staff and simplified payroll processing. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process 1mg saved time & costs with centralized Time and Attendance Customer Stories Sites 37 Staff 3000+ Country India Industry Pharma/Distributed Sites About 1mg Tata 1mg is India’s leading digital consumer healthcare platform. It was launched in 2015 and has grown rapidly. The company helps consumers make informed decisions about medicines by providing accurate information. They deliver medicines in 1000+ cities in India. Their online platform gets 150 million visitors, and they have delivered 25 million orders by 2020. They are adapting scalable technologies with a vision to expand to every nook and corner. Srinivas G Sr. HR Manager Tata 1mg We have been using Truein since July 2020. Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to an AI-based face recognition solution was made easy by the Truein team. The onboarding process was pretty simple, and the entire organization went live in a day or two. The product is easy to use and quite intuitive. It has good out-of-box customization options. Truein is a feature-rich and robust solution. We have about 3000+ staff at 37 sites, and the user experience has been great. Adding to this, the Truein team is always reachable and quick to respond in case of any queries. All in all, it has been a great experience with Truein so far! Challenges Tata 1 mg believes in providing its staff with the best possible experience. The company had a thumb-based attendance system that was causing errors and lags in the attendance data. They were looking for a reliable and user-friendly solution with a genuinely wow experience. They expected the solution to be scalable to manage the attendance needs of their rapidly growing workforce. 1 mg wanted an attendance system that could help overcome the following challenges: Manual reconciliation of unregistered attendance Large-scale data processing of attendance data every month end, which was leading to productivity loss Manual calculations for attendance policies such as half-day, holidays, etc. Covid-related safety concerns associated with traditional touch-based systems Lack of visibility in day-to-day operations Solution They chose Truein Time and Attendance across their branches and resolved several issues. Truein offered them: Covid safety features like mask-based attendance, check-list, and Arogya Setu status Role-based access for managers, admin, payroll, etc. Geo-fencing & mobile attendance for remote and field workers Multiple In and Out rules for time calculations Region-wise custom holidays and other rules Daily summary SMS & email for actionable insights Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result 1 mg successfully implemented Truein and achieved its goals at multiple levels. They were assured of 100% accuracy with AI-powered face recognition attendance. The need for manual syncs was eliminated. The reconciliation process that took up nearly a week every month was cut down to zero, with all reports generated automatically by Truein. The staff indeed found it to be a wow experience with having to spend just a few seconds to mark attendance and with no queue at the gates. The staff loved the daily summary reports and live mobile feeds. They could use one Truein system for multiple HR functions - payroll, compensation, recruitment, and so on by defining access levels for each role. Truein offered centralized controls that enabled a real-time view of their multiple sites. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein helped Compass Group manage the Time and Attendance of their staff working with multiple clients at the same work premises Customer Stories Sites 750+ Staff 23000+ Country India Industry Facility Management/Distributed Staff About Compass Group The Compass Group is a leading multinational food and support services company with over 75 years of experience. Its headquarters are in Chertsey, England. They offer various innovative dining options every day to millions of people belonging to different sectors like businesses, industries, healthcare, education, sports, etc. They operate in around 44 countries and 55,000 client locations. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group A few years back, I was looking for an app-based Time & Attendance system and came across Truein. Their technology is robust and works as promised. We tested a few others, but Truein’s technology and reliability far outscored them. Their tool is simple and intuitive. The team is very customer focused, responsive, and always willing to help. I have now implemented their solution in 2 companies, my previous company, and my current company. I personally believe that they have the best and most cost-effective solution. Challenges The Compass group, with over 20,000 employees spread across the country, faced a major problem with attendance tracking. Some of their staff were working for multiple clients located in the same building or work premises in different shifts. This made it difficult to track their attendance and led to leakages in Time and Attendance, which in turn, caused costs to rise and distrust among their clients – a major concern for the company’s brand value. They were looking for an attendance solution that offered the following: A single attendance-capturing device that can be installed at a common location for the attendance needs of their staff working for multiple clients on the same premises Portability without the need for any upfront capital investment Lean and scalable solution Accurate attendance capturing and centralized controls for their staff spread across multiple sites Facility to manage staff transfer across multiple sites Shift schedule management and a provision to customize attendance policies Leave management solution with the facility to set up leave policies along with pro-rata leave allocation, encashment, and adjustment Different levels of access to multiple admins and supervisors Easy Integration with their data hub Solution The Truein team helped the Compass Group set up Truein Time and Attendance seamlessly and without hiccups for approximately 20,000 staff across multiple states. Truein: Deployed multiple portable kiosks at different facilities and setup mobile app attendance access with face recognition-based time and attendance. Enabled cross-site kiosk mapping for the attendance of staff who work across multiple facilities on the same premises Simplified their staff transfer process. A consolidated view of the attendance data of any staff was now easily available, irrespective of the location. Provided advanced shift scheduling features and custom policies and compliances Offered customizable leave policies as per location and staff categories for easy leave management. Setting weekly off and public holidays and generating customized reports for leave balance was now a breeze. Set up a multiple-level hierarchy for attendance access at different levels Facilitated easy integration with their in-house data hub, which smoothened the process of staff addition and updation at multiple customer sites. Worked closely with the Compass team to understand the gaps and do the required customization Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Talk to us Watch a demo Truein Rollout Truein rollout at the Compass Group was well-planned and executed. Within five weeks, the entire organization, with more than 20,000 staff, went live. The rollout was divided into multiple stages and was carried out location-wise and feature-wise. The basic policies were rolled out first, followed by policies for leaves, shifts, regularization, etc. Result The Compass Group chose Truein to tide through its challenges. Truein streamlined Compass Group’s attendance processes and increased transparency internally across multiple layers and with their customers. A single capturing device (with cross-site kiosk mapping) catering to the attendance needs of staff working at multiple client locations in the same premises helped save money and preserve their brand value. Truein’s foolproof attendance system and geofencing helped avoid instances of staff leaving the work premises after marking their attendance, thus preventing revenue leakages. Improved shift planning with easy setup of shifts, including night shifts, enabled the staff to become more productive. Truein saved time spent managing attendance across the organization and multiple clients leading to an increase in overall productivity. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form