Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay March 31, 2024 Taking care of employee payroll involves understanding industry jargon. Time and a half is one such term that every HR manager must know. It is a term related to an overtime pay structure typically applicable for hours extra than the 40-hour week or for working on holidays. Globally, the standard overtime pay rate is time and a half of the regular hour wage. But what is time and a half pay? This post will discuss the basics of time and a half pay, when it is applicable, and how to calculate it. Table of Contents What is Time and a Half Pay? Who qualifies for time and a half pay? How to calculate Time and A half pay for hourly employees? Step 1: Calculate the standard hourly rate of pay Step 2: Multiply the standard rate by 1.5 Step 3: Calculate overtime wages Step 4: Total pay calculation Overtime for salaried employees Step 1. Calculate the per-hour rate Step 2. Calculate time and a half pay rate Step 3. Calculate total overtime wages Step 4. Calculate the total pay Conclusion FAQs 1. When do time and half pay apply? 2. Which holidays are eligible for time and a half pay? 3. What is the difference between exempt and non exempt employee? What is Time and a Half Pay? Time and a half is an overtime pay rate which is paid as the extra compensation to the employees for working ‘additional hours.’ The definition of additional hours differs from the conventional 40 hours a week. Companies can also offer overtime time and a half for certain circumstances, for instance, working on holidays or taking up a late shift. In this case, you’re eligible for time and a half holiday pay. The time-and-a-half rate pays workers 50% more than their regular hourly rate. Still, this premium pay is the appropriate reward for working extra time or covering unwanted shifts. This saves employers money as they don’t have to spend extra on hiring additional workers. However, only some employees are eligible for time and a half pay; specific rules under FSLA labor laws bring the concept of exempt and nonexempt employees. Who qualifies for time and a half pay? HR must understand which employees qualify for a time and a half pay. As per the FLSA guidelines, all hourly and nonexempt employees must receive overtime compensation for the extra hours worked outside the defined 40-hour workweek. Failing to comply with overtime requirements can have consequences such as lawsuits and fines, or you might have to back your employees in addition to damages and legal fees. So let’s understand who are exempt and nonexempt employees. Exempt are not eligible for overtime pay or covered by the FLSA. An exempt worker is a salaried employee who gets monthly or annual pay rather than hourly rates. Such employees get a yearly pay of at least $35,568. Exempt employees often serve in higher position roles in management, administration, executive, IT, etc. Furthermore, some hourly employees can also be considered exempt from the FLSA, such as food industry truck drivers and film employees. Nonexempt employees are included in the FLSA and must be paid time and a half for the overtime hours. All hourly employees are nonexempt unless they are employed in the abovementioned roles. These employees have annual pay below $35,568 and are usually in mid or low-level roles. Therefore, your time and a half calculator must consider the employee type when determining who is eligible for overtime pay. Your company’s time-and-a-half compensation policy must follow the FLSA legal framework. Also, some states have additional overtime laws apart from federal labor laws that you must consider if you are located in these states. For example, states like California and Alaska require nonexempt employees to be paid daily rather than weekly overtime. Also, in these states, employers must pay time and a half overtime for every hour above the standard 8 hours per day. How to calculate Time and A half pay for hourly employees? Understanding how to calculate time and a half pay for hourly and salaried employees is essential for accurate payroll. Step 1: Calculate the standard hourly rate of pay Begin by calculating the standard hourly rate of pay for the employees based on their regular hourly wage. The regular wage is the base rate for the time and a half-calculator. For example, if you pay workers $10 hourly, then it is their base rate. Step 2: Multiply the standard rate by 1.5 The next step is to determine the time and a-half rate. The calculation is simple; you multiply the base salary rate by 1.5 to get overtime pay. This is the rate that nonexempt employees must get for the extra hours. For example, a worker earning $10 per hour will be paid time and a half rate based on this formula: Time and a half pay= $10 × 1.5 = $15 per hour Step 3: Calculate overtime wages Now you will calculate the total overtime wages earned during the pay period. For this calculation, you must multiply the overtime hours by the time and the half-pay rate you calculated in Step 2. If the employee working for 10 overtime hours, their overtime wage will be: Overtime wages= Number of overtime hours × time and a half rate Overtime wages = 10 hours × $15 = $150 Step 4: Total pay calculation For the total pay, you must calculate the wages earned from regular hours and those earned from overtime hours. If the employee worked 40 regular hours (non-overtime): Total Pay = (Standard Hourly Rate × Regular Hours) + Overtime Wages Total Pay = ($10 × 40 hours) + $150 = $400 + $150 = $550 “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Overtime for salaried employees Some salaried employees are also entitled to overtime pay time. If their salary falls short of the required $35,568, they are entitled to time and a half pay. Suppose you pay salaried employees $15 per hour, so their standard annual pay will be $31,200 per year, making them nonexempt under FLSA. Let’s take this example. A salaried employee works 55 hours a week at $15 per hour. It makes them nonexempt, and they must be paid time and a half for the 15 overtime hours. Step 1. Calculate the per-hour rate As their annual pay is $31,200, their monthly pay will be: $31,200 / 52 weeks =$600 Now to convert monthly pay to hourly rate: $600 / 40 hours = $15. Step 2. Calculate time and a half pay rate We will use the same equation as above for this calculation. Time and a half pay rate = $15 x 1.5 =$22.50 Step 3. Calculate total overtime wages Considering the $22.50 per overtime hour rate and the number of hours worked: Total overtime wages = $22.50 x 15 hours = $337.50 Step 4. Calculate the total pay We add regular week wages and overtime weekly wages to calculate the total pay for the week. Total wages= $600 + $337.50 = $937.50 Please find below the mostly commonly asked time and half calculations. Time and Half Calculations Hourly Rate Time and Half Rate Time and Half for $20 an Hour $20 $30 Time and Half for $16 an Hour $16 $24 Time and Half for $12 an Hour $12 $18 Conclusion Time and a half pay is an essential concept for businesses. We hope this guide has highlighted the time and a half pay and how it is calculated for salaried and nonexempt employees. An essential aspect of these calculations is the accurate tracking of hours worked. Truein, an AI-based face recognition attendance and time tracking solution , can be an excellent solution. It can accurately record regular hours, overtime hours , and leaves which can be fed directly into the payroll system for salary calculations. FAQs 1. When do time and half pay apply? Time and a half pay typically applies to overtime hours an employee works. Overtime hours are usually extra hours outside the 40 hours a week. Time and a half pay means you pay employees one and a half times their regular hourly wage for each overtime hour. However, time and a half pay can also be applied for working on holidays and certain circumstances like taking unwanted shifts. However, time and a half pay can also be applied for working on holidays and certain circumstances like taking unwanted shifts. 2. Which holidays are eligible for time and a half pay? There are no federal laws regarding the list of holidays eligible for time and a half pay. It entirely depends on the local labor laws and company policies. However, in most cases, major public holidays such as New Year’s Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving, and Christmas are eligible for overtime pay. 3. What is the difference between exempt and non exempt employee? The basic and most important difference between exempt and non exempt employees is that non-exempt workers are entitled to certain benefits and protections under the Fair Law Standards Act (FLSA). It is a law that defines laws related to minimum wage and overtime pay. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? What Is Double Time Pay & A Half, When Is It Mandatory & How To Calculate It? Missouri Overtime Law: A Complete Guide on Missouri Law on Overtime Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? May 28, 2024 Hiring an employee is a responsibility that requires adequate planning and decision on whether the new worker will be a full-time, exempt employee or not. Exempt employees are given higher levels of responsibility and greater decision-making authority. There are both advantages and disadvantages to hiring full-time exempt employees. Understanding who is a full-time exempt employee and how they affect your workforce is essential. That’s what we are going to discuss in this blog. Table of Contents What Is An Exempt Employee? How does Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) classify an exempt employee in the USA? 1. Based on salary level 2. Based on the salary base test 3. Based on Duties performed test Understanding the advantages and disadvantages of hiring an exempt employee for your business 1. Flexibility 2. No overtime 3. Higher skills 4. Job dedication 5. More productive due to autonomy 6. Higher costs 7. No deductions 8. Burnout risk 9. Potential for misclassification How to determine if your business requires a full-time exempt employee/employees? Tips for Hiring Full-Time Exempt Employees Advantages and disadvantages for employees 1. Consistent income 2. Higher positions 3. Freedom 4. No overtime 5. Low motivation Conclusion FAQs 1. How many hours an exempt employee should work per week? 2. What is exempted and non-exempted employee? 3. What is the difference between full time exempt and nonexempt employees? What Is An Exempt Employee? Exempt employees are not required to follow a work schedule or shift. That makes a full time exempt position so lucrative for candidates, as they can work on certain days of the week. As full-time exempt employees are ‘exempted’ from fixed work schedules, they can work as much or as little to fulfill their responsibilities. Including such staff in your workforce introduces a challenge because the management can’t decide their schedule. Such employees have the autonomy to determine their schedules. Full-time exempt are salaried employees who are paid a monthly or annual salary. How does Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) classify an exempt employee in the USA? The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has defined clear conditions for exempt employees in the USA. Such employees are not regulated under the Fair Labor Standards Act, essentially allowing employers to not adhere to the overtime pay and minimum wage federal requirements. Here are the factors FLSA has based the classification of a full-time exempt employee: 1. Based on salary level Salaried employees can be exempt only if they earn a full time exempt salary of at least $684 per week or $35,568 annually. Any worker in your workforce earning less than $648 per week cannot be exempt. 2. Based on the salary base test Another difference between full-time exempt and nonexempt is the salary base test. A full-time exempt employee’s salary is not subject to reduction under any circumstances, including poor performance-related decrease. 3. Based on Duties performed test Under the duties performed test criteria, an employee must work in executive, professional, administrative, outside sales, or roles to qualify as full-time exempt. This test does not consider the job title; here, the employee’s job tasks supersede their title. Even if their titles do not have these words, but their tasks fall into these categories, they can be exempt. Understanding the advantages and disadvantages of hiring an exempt employee for your business Hiring full-time exempt employees comes with its own set of advantages and disadvantages. You must know the pros and cons to make an informed decision. Let’s break down the advantages and disadvantages of hiring exempt employees. Here are the advantages you must know. 1. Flexibility Exempt employees often have more flexibility in their work schedules. As such, staff is not required to adhere to strict hours and can usually manage their time to meet job goals and deadlines; managers don’t have to create work schedules. 2. No overtime Employers don’t have to pay overtime to full-time exempt staff, no matter how many hours these employees work per week. The full-time nonexempt workers must be paid 1.5 times their usual pay rates as overtime for more than 40 hours a week. This is why overtime can be a significant savings for employers for hiring exempt staff. 3. Higher skills Exempt employees are typically highly skilled and are experts in their field. They are an excellent asset for your business and offer higher output than their nonexempt counterparts. If your organization requires highly skilled staff, then a full-time exempt route may be the best option for cost savings. 4. Job dedication As exempt employees have a highly flexible work schedule, they have a better work-life balance, which is why they tend to have a higher level of commitment to their roles. As they work when they are most productive, they are invested in achieving results and contributing to the company’s success. 5. More productive due to autonomy A full-time exempt employee has more autonomy in decision-making and problem-solving. This makes them more productive and innovative in their roles. You can also give them more responsibilities, such as business mergers and delivery deadlines. You can ask them to work longer hours when needed without expecting to pay overtime. It would help to consider specific challenges when expanding your workforce with full-time exempt staff. 6. Higher costs While you save on overtime, exempt employees are typically paid a fixed salary. You have to hire them at a higher salary because of their expertise and experience. This can lead to higher labor costs than nonexempt employees who work regular hours and overtime. 7. No deductions Even if the exempt employees are not working at least 40 hours a week, you still cannot deduct their pay. In other words, sometimes you will pay them more than the hours worked. Furthermore, although exempt employees are not entitled to overtime pay, some might expect it for working longer hours. 8. Burnout risk Sometimes employers exploit the long hours of work routine for exempt employees as there is no overtime obligation. It can increase the risk of burnout among exempt employees, negatively affecting their productivity and well-being. 9. Potential for misclassification Given the complexity around the classification of a full time exempt position, it is very much possible that companies need help to correctly classify employees as exempt or nonexempt based on their job duties and responsibilities. Misclassifying employees could lead to legal and financial consequences. How to determine if your business requires a full-time exempt employee/employees? To determine whether you need full-time exempt employees, you must carefully evaluate your company’s needs, workload, and available resources. Start by identifying the specific business tasks and responsibilities that are critical. If these tasks can be managed by part-time or temporary staff, there is no need for full-time exempt staff. However, some tasks have complexity that requires a higher skill level, experience, or specialized knowledge. Such employees can be exempt if the role provides flexibility in schedule or demands availability outside of regular hours. Finally, consider the budget constraints to decide if you can afford the salary and benefits of a full-time exempt position. Tips for Hiring Full-Time Exempt Employees Clearly define the qualifications, experience, and skills required for the full-time exempt position. It will get suitable candidates for the position. Pay attention to candidates’ soft skills, such as communication, teamwork, adaptability, and leadership potential. These are essential qualities for exempt positions as they require autonomy. Full-time exempt employees are highly skilled and experienced. It would help if you prepared a competitive and attractive compensation package, including salary, benefits, and additional perks to get eligible resumes. Advantages and disadvantages for employees Being a full-time exempt employee offers several benefits but with challenges. That’s why employees must consider both when applying for a position. 1. Consistent income As a salaried employee, you will receive steady pay without any risk of deductions. 2. Higher positions Often higher positions are made full-time exempt, so being a full-time exempt employee will get you better pay and an advanced role in the company. 3. Freedom As a salaried exempt employee, you can manage your work schedule and tasks. On the downside, here are some disadvantages of a full-time exempt position. 4. No overtime Irrespective of how long you work, you are not entitled to overtime as an exempt employee. 5. Low motivation The security of a fixed salary can nurture complacency, and full-time exempt employees may need more motivation to better their performance. Conclusion You may have to include full-time exempt employees to ensure your business operations run smoothly and efficiently. It requires understanding the advantages and disadvantages of such positions and managing compliance in pay, attendance, and overtime accordingly. A workforce management software like Truein can significantly facilitate the management of a full-time exempt workforce. It’s a complete attendance and time-tracking solution offering 70+ policy templates to manage different types of employees. Know more here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account FAQs 1. How many hours an exempt employee should work per week? Exempt employees are not subject to federal or state overtime pay regulations, so they can work as little or as extra as required to complete tasks. 2. What is exempted and non-exempted employee? An exempt employee is a salaried worker exempt from specific provisions of labor laws, such as overtime pay. They generally don’t get overtime but have higher positions and better pay than full time non exempt employees. Nonexempt employees are typically paid hourly and entitled to overtime pay for hours worked beyond the standard 40-hour workweek. They are governed by the labor laws regulated by the FLSA. 3. What is the difference between full time exempt and nonexempt employees? The primary difference between exempt and nonexempt employees is their eligibility for overtime pay. Exempt workers are not entitled to overtime pay, while nonexempt employees receive overtime. Also, full-time exempt positions are salaried, while nonexempt is paid hourly. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Planning - Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? Impact of Employee Burnout on Your Workforce: Warning Signs, Causes and Best Preventive Measures Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form