Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Overtime Laws »  					Georgia Overtime Rules 2024: A Complete Guide for Employers Georgia Overtime Rules 2024: A Complete Guide for Employers June 23, 2024 As an employer, you are responsible for accurately compensating employees for their hard work. It includes recording, calculating, and paying overtime appropriately. Employers must follow federal laws, as Georgia doesn’t have labor laws addressing overtime. While all employers must pay employees overtime for hours worked over 40 hours a week at 1.5 times the regular wage rate, there are other considerations, too. This guide will walk you through the essential aspects of Georgia’s overtime laws. We will provide a comprehensive overview of Georgia’s labor laws and focus on requirements such as minimum wage, overtime regulations, and various types of employment. Table of Contents Wages and Hours in Georgia: Navigating Minimum Wage What are the overtime regulations in Georgia? Fair Labor Standards Act Overview Key Aspects of Georgia Overtime Rules Eligibility for Overtime in Georgia Overtime Exemptions Compliance with State and Federal Laws Policies and Procedures Flexible Work Arrangements and Overtime Considerations Overtime Implications of Flexible Work Arrangements Establishing Overtime Policies for Flexible Work Compliance Considerations Working Hour Laws in Georgia Key Aspects of Working Hour Laws in Georgia Overtime Calculation for Hourly Employees Overtime Calculation for Part-time Employees Overtime Calculation for Salaried Employees Overtime Calculation for Commission-based & Piecework-based Employees Overtime Laws for Tipped Employees Compensatory Time Off in Georgia How Can Truein Help with Overtime Pay Management? Conclusion FAQs Q. Who is eligible for overtime pay in Georgia? Q. What is the overtime pay rate in Georgia? Q. Are there any exceptions to the standard overtime rules in Georgia? Q. Do part-time employees qualify for overtime pay in Georgia? Q. Limits on Overtime Hours in Georgia? Q. Is overtime pay mandatory in Georgia? Q. Do employers have to pay overtime in Georgia? Q. What is the penalty for failing to pay overtime in Georgia? Wages and Hours in Georgia: Navigating Minimum Wage Georgia has one of the lowest minimum wage rates in the United States, $5.15 per hour as of 2024. However, the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) has set the federal minimum wage at $7.25 per hour, superseding the state minimum wage. Therefore, most employers must pay their employees $7.25 per hour minimum wage. For tipped employees, the minimum wage requirements are different in Georgia. In the state, tipped employees can be paid a lower direct wage of $2.13 per hour, provided their tips bring their total earnings to at least the federal minimum wage of $7.25 per hour. Employers are required to compensate for the difference if tips do not reach this threshold. What are the overtime regulations in Georgia? Georgia labor laws on overtime require employers to follow the guidelines of FLSA. Therefore, employers must be aware of the overtime regulations enforced by the Fair Labor Standards Act. Fair Labor Standards Act Overview The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) is a federal law established in 1938 that provides the foundation for the states to set labor standards in the United States. Its guidelines include minimum wage, overtime pay, record-keeping, and child labor. Georgia requires all employers to follow FLSA policies on overtime. As per FLSA: Employees will be eligible for overtime pay if they work over 40 hours in a workweek. The overtime pay will be 1.5 times the regular wage rate for employees. However, not all employers are covered under FLSA in Georgia. The federal law applies to employers who: Employ at least two employees with an annual revenue of at least $500,000. Engage in interstate commerce or the production of goods for commerce irrespective of their annual revenue or number of employees. All hospitals, businesses providing medical or nursing care for residents, schools (whether operated for profit or not), and public agencies fall under FLSA. Key Aspects of Georgia Overtime Rules In Georgia, any non-exempt employee working more than 40 hours in a workweek is entitled to overtime pay at a rate of 1.5 times their regular pay rate. Compensatory time off, or “comp” time, allows employers to offer employees time off instead of overtime pay but is only allowed for government employees. Such employees earn 1.5 hours of comp time for every hour of overtime. In Georgia, employees become eligible for overtime pay if they work over 40 hours in a workweek and not for working over 8 hours daily. Overtime eligibility is based solely on hours worked more than 40 in a workweek. Georgia provides a two-year statute of limitations to file claims for unpaid overtime. Employees can file a complaint within two years from the date of misconduct by the employers. This period extends to three years if the violation is found to be willful. Eligibility for Overtime in Georgia To be eligible for overtime pay in Georgia, employees must be classified as non-exempt under the FLSA . Generally, most full-time and part-time employees are non-exempt, with a few exemptions that we will cover next. Employers meeting the above criteria under FLSA regulation must provide employees with overtime at 1.5 times their regular wage rate. Overtime Exemptions Under FLSA, executive, administrative, and professional employees and certain computer professionals and outside sales employees are termed exempt employees. Such employees are not covered under the Georgia overtime laws; this includes: Executive employees managing a company, directing the work of at least two fulltime employees, and have the authority to hire or fire people. Administrative staff performing office or non-manual work directly related to the management or general business operations. Professionals utilizing higher learning and earning at least $684 per week. Outside sales workers engaged away from the place of business. Compliance with State and Federal Laws Employers must correctly classify employees to comply with the state and federal laws. Any misclassification of exempt and nonexempt employees can lead to significant legal and financial penalties, such as a maximum penalty of $10,000 for intentionally misclassifying employees. Georgia doesn’t have state specific overtime laws and so federal laws apply to the workers. This simply means that the non exempt employees working over 40 hours a week are entitled to get overtime pay. As mentioned above, the overtime wage rate is equal to 1.5x of the employee’s regular pay rate for each hour worked above 40. Policies and Procedures It is the responsibility of employers to create clear policies and procedures regarding exempt employees. This includes maintaining accurate job descriptions, regularly reviewing employee classifications, and providing wage and hour law compliance training. Flexible Work Arrangements and Overtime Considerations Since the pandemic, flexible work arrangements, such as telecommuting, flextime, and compressed workweeks, have become increasingly popular at several workplaces. These arrangements offer employees greater flexibility in their work schedules, but employers present unique challenges for managing overtime. Overtime Implications of Flexible Work Arrangements Flexible work arrangements are no exception to the FLSA requirement of at least 40 work hours per week. However, for salaried employees, flexible work arrangements change overtime calculation. Employees who work less than 40 hours in a standard workweek are paid 0.5 times their regular wage rate for overtime hours. Employers must carefully track hours worked under flexible arrangements to ensure compliance with overtime regulations. Establishing Overtime Policies for Flexible Work Employers must establish clear overtime policies for employees working under flexible arrangements, explaining how their overtime will be considered and calculated. Policy overview must also include guidelines on reporting hours worked and procedures for obtaining approval for overtime. Compliance Considerations You must ensure that your policies for flexible work arrangements comply with state and federal overtime laws. As Georgia law on overtime pay doesn’t address flexible work arrangements, the FLSA Fluctuating Workweek Method of Computing Overtime applies in the state. The FLSA does not require sick leave, holidays, vacations or severance pay. It doesn’t even address maximum working hours or break hours. As Georgia doesn’t have similar law, the FLSA serves as the governing law that addresses wage, hour and overtime problems for the Georgia employees. Working Hour Laws in Georgia Working hour laws in Georgia govern how long employees can work and the conditions under which they work. According to the Labor Code of Georgia, the standard working hours are 40 hours/work week. These laws protect employees’ health and well-being while ensuring fair compensation. Key Aspects of Working Hour Laws in Georgia Employee Rights and Protections Employers in Georgia must adhere to the state Labor Code and federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards to provide a safe and healthy work environment. It includes creating and enforcing policies, practices, and standards to ensure employers know workplace safety. Standard Working Hours Standard working hours typically consist of a 40-hour workweek. Employers should define workweeks clearly and communicate expectations to employees, such as their schedules and workload. Overtime Regulations Georgia enforces the FLSA overtime regulations that require all non-exempt employees to be compensated at 1.5 times their regular pay rate for hours worked over 40 in a workweek. Overtime Calculation for Hourly Employees In Georgia, hourly employees must be paid overtime for hours over 40 in a workweek at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular pay rate. Overtime Pay = Overtime Hours × (1.5×Regular Hourly Rate) Assume an employee works at a regular hourly rate of $20 and, in a workweek, works for 50 hours. Hence, their overtime hours will be 10. So, Overtime Pay= 10 × (1.5×20) = 10 × 30= $300 Overtime Calculation for Part-time Employees Part-time employees are also entitled to the same overtime pay rate if they work more than 40 hours per week. Overtime pay calculation for part-time employees will be the same as: Overtime Pay = Overtime Hours × (1.5×Regular Hourly Rate) Overtime Calculation for Salaried Employees Salaried employees, if earning less than $684 per week, are eligible for overtime. However, there are two scenarios: If they work the standard 40-hour workweek, they are paid 1.5 times the regular wage rate for their overtime hours. If their standard workweek is less than 40 hours, they are paid 0.5 times the regular wage rate. Suppose a salaried employee earns $9000 monthly and works a 30-hour workweek. For a week, he works 40 hours. His overtime calculation will be as follows: Regular weekly wage rate = $9000/30 =$300 Regular hourly rate = $300/30 hours = $10 per hour. Regular wage = 30 x $10= $300 Overtime wage= 10 x ($10×0.5) = $50 Total pay = $300 + $50 = $350 Overtime Calculation for Commission-based & Piecework-based Employees For employees paid by commissions or piecework, the regular hourly rate must be determined based on total earnings in the workweek based on the number of products produced or commission earned. Their overtime rate is 0.5 times the regular rate. Let’s understand with an example. Susan works on commission, earning $15 for every sale made. In a week, she worked 50 hours, making 150 sales. Calculate the Regular Hourly Pay Rate: Regular Hourly Pay Rate = Per sale commission × Total Sales / Total Hours Worked Regular Hourly Pay Rate=15 × 150 / 50 = $45 Overtime Hours: Overtime Hours=50−40=10 Calculate the Overtime Premium Rate: Overtime Premium Rate = 0.5×Regular Hourly Pay Rate Overtime Premium Rate = 0.5×45 = $22.50 Calculate the Total Compensation for the Week: Regular Earnings= Per sale commission × Total sales Regular Earnings = 15×150 = $2250 Overtime Pay: Overtime Pay = Overtime Premium Rate × Overtime Hours Overtime Pay = 22.50×10 = $225 Total Compensation: Total Compensation = Regular Earnings + Overtime Pay Total Compensation = 2250 + 225 = $2475 Overtime Laws for Tipped Employees In Georgia, tipped employees can be paid a minimum wage of $2.13 per hour by their employees, provided that they get enough tips to meet the minimum wage set by federal law. Employers must make up for the difference if tipped employees do not earn enough tips to make a minimum wage. Overtime for tipped employees is calculated based on the full minimum wage of $7.25 per hour, not the lower direct wage. Compensatory Time Off in Georgia Compensatory time off, or “comp” time, is available only to government employees in Georgia. FLSA prohibits private sector employers from offering comp time as an alternative to overtime pay. Public sector employees can receive compensatory time at 1.5 hours for each overtime worked. Under the compensatory time law, the non exempt employee can accrue 240 hours compensatory time. And when this is met, they should be paid an overtime amount. So, higher hours are there for fire personnel and police. These employees can accrue up to 480 hours compensatory time before they get the overtime pay. How Can Truein Help with Overtime Pay Management? For compliance, employers must inadvertently comprehend state and federal overtime laws in their policies. Truein offers a comprehensive solution for tracking and managing overtime pay, ensuring employers can easily handle complex wage calculations and compliance requirements. It is a complete time and attendance solution that offers real-time tracking of employee work hours, including start and end times, breaks, and overtime. With Truein, overtime calculations can be automated based on the company’s specific policies and legal requirements, reducing the risk of manual errors. With over 70 customizable overtime policies, employers can make changes such as different overtime rates, setting thresholds for overtime hours, or applying various rules for different employee categories to align overtime calculations with their specific needs. Learn more about Truein’s features . Some of the features include: Overtime requests undergo various levels of approval. This ensures that overtime is properly authorized. Managers and supervisors can approve or reject the requests, thus making the process accountable and transparent to a certain extent. There are customizable overtime rules that can be set to match an employer’s needs as well. So whether it is shift changes or overtime thresholds on staff categories, Truein can easily adapt to the policies. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Compliance with Georgia overtime laws is essential for employers. Not only do they have to stay informed about the latest wage and hour laws updates, but they also ensure compliance with several laws. This comprehensive guide on State of Georgia overtime laws provides valuable insights into various aspects of overtime regulations, from calculating overtime for different types of employees to understanding exemptions and compliance requirements. FAQs Q. Who is eligible for overtime pay in Georgia? All non-exempt employees who work more than 40 hours in a workweek are eligible for overtime pay in Georgia. As the regular minimum wage in Georgia is $7.25/hour, the overtime minimum wage is $10.88/hour, which is 1.5x of the minimum wage. Some of the exemptions include high order workers in administrative, executive, outside sales fields who get paid on salary basis. Q. What is the overtime pay rate in Georgia? The standard overtime pay rate in Georgia is 1.5 times the employee’s regular rate of pay. Workers that are paid on hourly basis in the non exempt industries making less than $684/week are entitled to getting overtime compensation. Q. Are there any exceptions to the standard overtime rules in Georgia? Yes, exempt employees under FLSA, such as those in executive, administrative, and professional roles, may be exempt from overtime requirements if they earn less than $684 per week. Q. Do part-time employees qualify for overtime pay in Georgia? Yes, part-time employees are entitled to overtime pay if they work over 40 hours in a workweek. However the temporary part time workers or the employees who work less than 20 hours per week are not eligible for such benefits. Q. Limits on Overtime Hours in Georgia? There are no state-specific limits on the number of overtime hours an employee can work in Georgia, and it depends entirely on the company’s policies. Overtime hours can range from 1-3 hours daily. Employees should not work more than 5 hours without taking a break. Also, the weekly limit for work hours ranges from 50-60 hours and there is even a quarterly limit of 50-150 hours for overtime hours. Q. Is overtime pay mandatory in Georgia? Yes, overtime pay is mandatory for non-exempt employees who work more than 40 hours in a workweek. In Georgia, the employers governed by FLSA are obligated to pay the non exempt employees for overtime work. The FLSA basically applies to the majority of businesses, including those with yearly sales exceeding $500,000 or those engaged in interstate activities. Q. Do employers have to pay overtime in Georgia? Yes, as state and federal laws require, employers must accurately compensate eligible employees for overtime hours. Q. What is the penalty for failing to pay overtime in Georgia? Georgia abides by the federal labor laws and overtime regulations laid down by the FLSA. Under federal laws, there can be a maximum penalty of up to $10,000 for failing to pay overtime. Employers that are found to repeatedly or wilfully violate FLSA may incur a penalty of $1000 for every violation they commit regarding neglecting to pay the employees their overtime wages. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Georgia PTO Laws: A Comprehensive Guide on Georgia Paid Time-off Laws Colorado Overtime Laws 2024: A Complete Guide for Employers Ohio Overtime Laws: A Complete Guide for Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form