Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail 13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail July 23, 2024 A leave policy is an integral part of HR management for companies. Employees must be aware of their paid leave days and other holidays. Most candidates ask about the type of leaves they will get during the recruitment phase. Your organization’s leave policy matters so companies should have a detailed leave policy. The types of work leaves availed by the employees in the company also set an impression on your employer. This article will discuss the most common types of leaves a company must provide to employees to retain and recruit talent. Table of Contents What information must be there in a company's leave policy? 1. Privilege Leave/Earned Leave/Annual Leave 2. Casual leave 3. Sick leave 4. Maternity leave 5. Paternity leaves 6. Marriage leave 7. Sabbatical Leave 8. Bereavement leave 9. Half-day leave 10. Loss of Pay Leave 11. Compensatory Off 12. Public holidays 13. Menstruation Leave State-specific different types of leaves in India Types of Leaves As Per Different Labour laws in India Conclusion What information must be there in a company's leave policy? A leave policy must have detailed information on the number of leaves employees are entitled to. It must also mention the types of absence leaves they are eligible for and how to apply for the leaves. HR managers must maintain a leave policy for the company because it ensures employees will get essential time off to go on vacations, recover from illness, take care of any issues or take a sabbatical when needed. If you are unaware of what types of leave to include in the policy, this article will guide you through it. 1. Privilege Leave/Earned Leave/Annual Leave A privilege or earned leave is the annual leave for the employees working for a company within a year. While the norm in the country is to offer 18 earned leaves, the number of privilege leaves varies across the organizations. If workers want to use their privilege leaves, they need to get formal approval from their managers in advance. Usually, unauthorized absences are adjusted against privilege leaves. Employees are most motivated by the earned leave mentioned in their contract because such annual leave can be encashed if they do not use them throughout the year. 2. Casual leave Casual leave is the most common type of leave workers ask for vacation, rest, family events, and taking time off to relax and unwind. Every employee is entitled to casual leaves for a proper work-life balance. As employees must be able to have a life outside work, they need time off to travel, attend events, participate in life events and spend more time with family. Casual leaves are essential to offer workers enough time to focus and prioritize life when required. This makes them appreciate the company and feel comfortable working with such employers. In India, most companies offer one to two casual leaves a month. The quantum varies from state to state, and there is no legal provision on the number of casual leaves. Still, most companies provide 8 to 15 casual leaves in a year. Generally, workers cannot club casual leave with another type of leave, and they can neither be cashed nor carried forward. 3. Sick leave Sick leave is the time off provided for employees to recover from an illness or if they get injured and need time for healing. Companies must offer sick leaves for employees to enable them to take time off in case of health and well-being needs without losing pay. Depending on your country of operation, the requirement and provisions around sick leaves might differ, so it is essential to consult with lawmakers on the same. Companies must give their workers 15 days of sick leave in India in a year. However, it is only the minimum, and companies must be flexible with the number of sick leaves they allow employees in case of severe health issues. 4. Maternity leave Working women often face family planning challenges as they take a sabbatical from work, which might affect their careers. To ensure the joy of motherhood is not dimmed, companies offer maternity leaves. In India, the law gives women the right to take six months of maternity to manage their pregnancy and postpartum. As per the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 , women can also take maternity leave in case of miscarriage or abortion. The duration of maternity leave offered varies depending on the employer; usually, among all the types of leaves for employees, maternity leaves provide the most extended break. As per the law, women employees can extend their maternity leave for up to 16 months without termination. However, it is at the company’s sole discretion to decide how many days of this duration will be unpaid. 5. Paternity leaves As women get maternity leave, male workers are entitled to paternity leave. Soon to becoming parents, male employees can ask for paternity leave during the final days of pregnancy or immediately after the baby’s arrival. Paternity leave is still not common in private companies, but some reputed companies such as Google, Microsoft, and IBM offer paternity leave in India. As company policies regarding paternity leaves differ across the organizations, it is essential to check your company’s leave policy to know if they offer paternity leave. 6. Marriage leave As the title suggests, this type of leave allows employees to get paid when they get married. Some companies even provide such leaves in case of marriage in the family. It is one of the most common types of leaves available by the company employees to attend a family function or be part of one. 7. Sabbatical Leave To allow employees enough time to upskill and sharpen their knowledge or to prepare for an upcoming project, certain types of leave are offered, known as sabbatical leave. Employees need sabbatical leave to contribute to the organization and help improve its operation. Employees can ask for a sabbatical leave if they want to invest time in education advancement, career break, or deal with family/health crises. However, unlike other types of work leaves, there is no legal provision around these. Also, sabbatical leaves are not approved immediately, so employees need to plan them. 8. Bereavement leave In the unfortunate event of the demise of a family member, employees are entitled to take bereavement leaves. As no laws are making it mandatory to offer such leaves, most companies provide bereavement leaves on the ground of compassion. Among different types of leave, this concept is still new in India but a much-needed one. Employees need time to grieve, participate in last rites or handle other legal situations after death in the family, and bereavement leaves allow them to do so without losing pay. 9. Half-day leave When the employees take a half-day off, either the first or second half, it is termed half-day leave. Generally, workers take half-day leaves to take care of minor responsibilities like a doctor’s appointment, attending a PTM or going to the bank. This offers them an outstanding work-life balance as they can take care of personal and professional responsibilities. 10. Loss of Pay Leave Also known as unpaid leave, loss of pay leave is when an employee takes leave after all their unpaid leaves are over, and it doesn’t fall under any particular category. Employees can still take leave, but the company will deduct the payment for the day. 11. Compensatory Off Compensatory offs or comp-offs are provided to employees when they work on non-working days such as weekends to complete their assignments or do extra work. Comp-offs are a gesture to appreciate their extra hard work and contribution to the company. 12. Public holidays Every country has designated mandatory public holidays. Events like Independence Day, Republic Day, Diwali, Holi, October 2nd, etc., are public holidays in India. Companies are obliged to let employees take off these days. 13. Menstruation Leave Some progressing companies allow women employees menstruation leave to enable them to manage the increased requirement for hygiene during the period. While not common in India, some of the largest companies offer menstruation leave to their employees, such as Swiggy, Zomato, and Byjus. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account State-specific different types of leaves in India While the Factories Act 1948 sets the general guidelines for leave policy in India, there are also specific state-specific laws. Here’s a glimpse of the types of leaves as per each state: Types of Leaves As Per Different Labour laws in India Sl. No. Act Type of leave Entitlement No. of leaves Carry Forward 1 Factories Act, 1948 Earned Leave Completing 240 days work One leave for every 20 days work 30 days 2 West Bengal Shops and Establishment Act Earned Leave A year of work 14 days 28 days Sick Leave From joining date 14 days (Half pay) 56 days Casual Leave From joining date 10 days Cannot be accumulated 3 Bihar Shops & Establishment Act And Jharkhand S&E Act Earned Leave 240 work days the previous year One leave for 20 days of working 45 days Sick Leave From joining date 12 days (Half pay) NA Casual Leave From joining date 12 days NA 5 Delhi S&E Act Privilege Leave 5 days for every 4 months for permanent employees 15 days 45 days Sick Leave/ Casual Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days NA 6 Andhra Pradesh S&E Act Privilege Leave Completing 240 days work 15 days 60 days Sick Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days Casual Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days Special Casual Leave Once after completing 2 years in service 6 days NA 7 Karnataka S&E Act Earned Leave 240 work days the previous year 1 every 20 work days 30 days 240 work days the previous year 1 every 20 work days 40 days Sick Leave From joining date 12 days 8 Kerala S&E Act Annual Leave After complete a year in service 12 days 24 days Sick Leave From the joining date 12 days NA Casual Leave From the joining date 12 days NA Special Casual Leave After an operation or surgery 6 days for men and 14 days for females NA 9 Bombay S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year 21 days for every 60 days of work 42 days 10 Orissa S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year For Adult:- 1 day for every 20 days worked For Child:- 1 day for every 15 days worked 30 days for adults and 40 days for child Sick Leave From joining date 15 days NA 11 Rajasthan S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year For Adult:- 1 day for every 12 days worked For Child:- 1 day for every 15 days worked 30 days for adult and 40 days for child 12 Tamil Nadu S&E Act Privilege Leave A year in service One every month 24 days Sick Leave Join Date 12 days NA Casual Leave Join Date 12 days NA 13 Uttar Pradesh S&E Act Earned Leave A year in service 15 days 45 days Sick Leave After six months in service 15 days NA Casual Leave After 6 months in service 10 days NA 14 Punjab S&E Act Earned Leave After 20 days of continuous employment One in 20 days 30 days Sick Leave Joining date 7 days NA Casual Leave Joining Date 7 days NA Conclusion Every company must have a clear leave policy detailing the types of leaves provided for employees. However, the diversity of the leaves can be hard to handle in absence of a leave and attendance management system like Truein. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition attendance system that provides end-to-end leave management for HR teams to view, update, assign, approve, and deduct leaves. It also readily integrates with most payroll software making it much easier to adjust salary according to leaves taken. Schedule a free demo today and see Truein attendance and leave management software in action. Discover HR’s guide to employee leave management . Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? July 23, 2024 As businesses are getting more competitive than ever, managing time better is one advantage that can boost productivity. The more your workforce is managed, the more work gets done, and you can increase profits faster. Employee time tracking is one way to manage the workforce for maximum productivity. You are missing several benefits if your company is not tracking employee time. Table of Contents What is employee time tracking? 8 Benefits of employee time tracking 1. Helps to increase staff productivity 2. Bill clients for the exact work that has been done 3. Track time across different devices 4. Review employee performance 5. Accurately report hours 6. Prevents employee burnout 7. Automate payroll process 8. Easy calculation of employee overtime What are the different ways to track employee time? 1. Paper timesheets 2. Excel timesheets 3. Time tracking software Truein: The Ultimate Time Tracking Software Conclusion What is employee time tracking? Time tracking is the process of keeping track of the number of hours employees work so they can be paid accurately at the end of their payment cycle. The benefits of employee time tracking are not just for the workforce, but employers also get meaningful insights that help them track and eradicate malpractices like time theft , excessive overtime, and regular absenteeism . There are many more reasons to ensure your organization has accurate employee time tracking arrangements. Let’s take a closer look at some of these benefits. 8 Benefits of employee time tracking 1. Helps to increase staff productivity It is common to find employees working casually even when a deadline looms. Also, when employees are not encouraged or motivated enough with a sense of urgency to deliver, there can be a severe lapse in company productivity. What might seem like your employees are slacking off might be an unorganized workforce in the absence of time tracking. Scheduling and work allotment issues can arise without employee time tracking. Employees take ownership of their workload by tracking their time; they are much more organized. Time tracking helps them identify how long they take to complete a particular task. It also helps them gauge their performance. Overall, with employee time tracking, you can help boost employee productivity. 2. Bill clients for the exact work that has been done When you track time for employees, you are in a better position to bill clients for the actual work that has been done. Estimated invoices for work done aren’t the same as an accurate log. You can’t bill clients accurately if you are not using tools for employee time tracking. Missed minutes can accumulate to severe losses. For instance, if a job takes 20 minutes longer than estimated and your company completes ten assignments weekly, you are missing 170 billable hours every year. By accurately timing, you will get the revenue you deserve. 3. Track time across different devices One of the benefits of time tracking software is that you can maintain consistent time keeping across multiple devices. For companies where workers are distributed over a larger area like mining and construction, keeping track of employees with a single machine is difficult. Cloud-based employee time tracking apps like Truein help workers accurately record attendance and work hours irrespective of location. 4. Review employee performance Reviewing employee performance is necessary to ensure that their performance is not lacking. When HR managers have to conduct annual performance reviews, the data from employee time tracking is a great reference source. It is easier to compare an employee’s performance to other employees. Such analysis can help employees to evaluate their performance. If they are inconsistent with their attendance, they can be warned with evidence. 5. Accurately report hours Companies must abide by the labor laws and compliance provisions to ensure workers are not exploited. For HR managers, it can be a tedious task to compile the report at the end of each month or quarter to share with management. But if the employee time tracking is done accurately, it’s infinitely easier for managers to create a report. One of the benefits of time tracking software is that it allows you to create reports periodically and automatically. With employment time tracking, compliance can be done in minutes. 6. Prevents employee burnout Without proper employee time tracking, it will be hard to schedule shifts or to identify if any worker is overextending themselves by working too many shifts. If HR managers create a too hectic schedule, they can burn out the workers. It can negatively impact productivity and can disturb the work-life balance of employees. One of the benefits of employee time tracking is that it can create a great working culture that allows employees to balance their well-being. With time tracking and shift scheduling software , managers and supervisors can know when and where employees are working and what tasks are being assigned. 7. Automate payroll process Payroll calculation is essential to pay employees accurately. With employee time tracking, it is easier to monitor the number of hours an employee has worked at the end of the pay cycle. Companies with a large workforce can imply cost savings in payroll management. Erroneous paychecks are an additional overhead for the managers to correct. It also affects your employer’s brand negatively. 8. Easy calculation of employee overtime According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), unless exempt, employees working over 40 hours in a workweek must be paid overtime at a rate not less than time and one-half their regular rates of pay. Also, as per Indian law, companies must pay twice the average pay rate to workers for overtime hours. If you are not tracking overtime accurately, you will have a substantial financial burden that can affect your profits. With accurate time tracking, overtime can be managed, and you can ensure no worker exploits overtime policies within the company. There are several benefits of tracking employee time, but how do you track time efficiently? Let’s see the common ways to track employee time. What are the different ways to track employee time? 1. Paper timesheets The most traditional way of timekeeping in companies is paper timesheets. It is a simple format sheet with a table with the Date, Day, Time-in, and Time-out fields. While paper timesheets are easy to create, they are not sustainable when managing a large workforce. Furthermore, managers are forced to calculate the work hours manually, which is prone to errors. It results in inaccurate pay that can hamper employee morale. 2. Excel timesheets These are similar to paper timesheets used to track the punching time of the workers, the only difference being that these time sheets are created with the help of software. While Excel timesheets offer a level of automation for calculation, they are still complicated to manage. All the data must be entered manually, which takes a lot of time. The chances of human error are higher. Also, you cannot create productivity reports using Excel timesheets automatically. 3. Time tracking software The best tool for employee time tracking is time and attendance management software . With the help of these tools, you can entirely automate workforce, schedule, and payroll management. When you use time tracking software, managers and supervisors don’t have to waste hours or even days managing timesheets and conducting payroll. These tools include additional features such as automated report generation, shift scheduling, invoicing, etc. Truein: The Ultimate Time Tracking Software Truein is one of the most comprehensively created AI-powered facial recognition time clock software used by several companies across industries. It is a cloud-based time tracking and attendance software that allows companies to track employee times accurately. It also features overtime tracking that ensures workers are paid only for their work hours. Furthermore, it provides a geofencing attendance app for onsite workers to ensure they are at the destined place when they record the attendance. You can create overtime work policies within the software and enforce them for employees. This ensures that there is an even distribution of work between employees. The software manages employee attendance, overtime, and leave data within a centralized database that managers can access at any time to create accurate reports. Truein easily integrates with most of the payroll software that companies use. This allows seamless automation of payroll management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope this article informed you of the benefits of employee time tracking effectively. For any company, employees are an essential resource. Employee time tracking can ensure that workers are rewarded for their work ethics and performance. It also adds to your employer’s brand when workers are paid accurately on time. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Employee Performance Metrics: 16 Types of Employee Performance Indicators and Benefits What Is Employee Self-Service, How It Works and What Are The Benefits? Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form