Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					New Year Resolution For HRs in 2023 New Year Resolution For HRs in 2023 May 27, 2024 The workplace landscape has changed significantly since the pandemic hit. While the after-effects have subsided, there is a change in the expectation of workers. Employees now want better work-life balance, flexibility, and conducive company policies. As a result, HR managers must create a creative New Year resolution to accommodate such requirements. In this article, we explore some key themes HRs must keep in mind when creating New Year’s resolutions for them. Table of Contents 8 HR New Year’s resolutions 1. Prevent employee burnout 2. Increasing employee engagement 3. Helping remote employees feel more connected 4. Give employees feedback regularly 5. Training employees who are not performing well 6. Promote a healthy work/life balance 7. Review all the HR process 8. Automate the HR process and save time Conclusion 8 HR New Year’s resolutions 1. Prevent employee burnout Devise a plan to prevent employee burnout. It is becoming increasingly important that companies’ attendance policies allow workers to maintain a healthy work and life balance. If your company can enable workers to have a hybrid work model, it can bring much-needed flexibility. A recent study found that companies that allow workers to work remotely have a 25% lower employee turnover rate than companies that don’t. Suppose you are in an industry such as construction, manufacturing, and automobile where the workforce cannot work remotely. In that case, you can plan rotating shifts to ensure workers are getting enough rest. 2. Increasing employee engagement With silent resignation becoming a common phenomenon in companies, HR’s New Year’s resolution must include increasing employee engagement. Silent resignation is when workers stop putting in effort or willingly refuse to cooperate with the management. There can be several reasons, but often poor employee engagement causes the issue. As part of your New Year’s resolution, you can introduce an employee recognition program that helps workers to feel more connected and appreciated. It is essential that your workers feel valued and are aware of the contributions they make to the organization. It is necessary to avoid their identity crisis and keep them engaged. 3. Helping remote employees feel more connected Due to the pandemic, many companies started supporting remote work. By 2022, many remote employees started reporting adverse effects on their productivity and mental well-being because they felt disconnected. While work from the home environment has its perks, the isolation can result in workers feeling left out. One way HR managers can help remote employees feel more connected is by providing more opportunities for fun. We are not referring to virtual happy hours but thoughtful and meaningful team-building activities such as casual meetings, constructive debates, and more. A recognition program can help with working teams feeling disconnected. 4. Give employees feedback regularly This year make it a point to provide employees feedback regularly. It is essential to eradicate any confusion and lower anxiety among workers. When the management is not transparent about their performance, employees assume the worst, which can severely demotivate them and lower their productivity. Providing regular performance feedback helps workers evaluate their output, and they can proactively take measures to correct their behavior. 5. Training employees who are not performing well Often all it takes to bring employees back on track if they are lacking in productivity and performance is to provide opportunities for training. HR’s New Year resolutions should include a plan for training employees who are not performing well. It is found that companies with employee training programs are twice as likely to retain workers compared to companies that do not invest in workers’ upskilling programs. 6. Promote a healthy work/life balance The growth of companies often requires workers to work harder to support the increasing demand. However, productivity and revenue should come at a cost other than your workers’ work/life balance. HR managers are responsible for ensuring that workers are not exhausted physically or mentally and show compassion towards their challenges. Make it your New Year’s resolution to promote a healthy work/life balance in your organization through policy change initiatives. Include workers during policy drafting to allow them a say in policies that will affect their life at work. 7. Review all the HR process Another significant change you can bring this year is to ensure all the HR processes are transparent and there is no bias. You can achieve this by including multiple screening methods, structured interviews, and employee feedback programs. You must set up open communication channels that solicit feedback from workers after their onboarding to assist their continuous improvement. 8. Automate the HR process and save time This must be on your HR’s New Year resolution list. It’s 2023, and if you are still using Excel sheets or physical timesheets for HR processes and payroll, you are wasting a lot of time that could be invested in improving employee experience and productivity. Truein is an excellent employee time and attendance management system that can automate several HR processes, saving a great deal of time and effort. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less attendance system that uses AI facial recognition technology to identify workers and record attendance. However, its real strength lies in the suite of HR features such as real-time attendance recording, leave management, overtime management, attendance policy management, attendance audit, automatic report generation, and easy integration with all major payroll software solutions. Schedule a demo today and see how the Truein attendance system works. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion As an HR manager, it is ultimately your responsibility to help the management implement the vision for the organization while ensuring employees are included at every step. The HR New Year’s resolutions we have listed here can help you easily create a productive and growth-oriented environment for the workers. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 27, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 27, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 27, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 27, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 27, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws New Jersey PTO Law: An Employer's Guide to Paid Time Off Laws in New Jersey Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Unlocking HR’s Full Potential: Navigating the Top 5 Limitations of Human Resource Management Unlocking HR’s Full Potential: Navigating the Top 5 Limitations of Human Resource Management March 31, 2024 Human resource management (HRM) is one of the essential topics of workforce management. Irrespective of the department a manager belongs to; they must have a basic knowledge of the principles of HRM. As a manager, you will have to deal with employees one way or the other, which is why you must understand the limitations of HRM. While human resource management systems are becoming common, they still have a long way to truly encapsulate the innate requirements of the people at the workplace. In this article, we list the limitations of human resource management that you must consider while making a decision. Table of Contents What is an HRM? Five limitations of human resource management 1. Recent origin 2. Cost of setting it up and installation 3. Time to train to use it 4. It is for regular employees and not for the contractual workforce 5. Problematic if you have a surplus of staff Conclusion What is an HRM? Human resource management (HRM) is the practice of recruiting, hiring, onboarding, and managing workers in a company. Often, HRM is used interchangeably with human resources (HR). The HR department in the company is responsible for creating, implementing, and overseeing the governance policies for the workers and maintaining the organization’s relationship with its employees. Simply put, HRM is employee management emphasizing the workers who are an asset to the business, such as skilled employees. In HRM, employees are also referred to as human capital. The HRM’s primary goal is to effectively use the workforce, reduce risks to the business, and maximize the return on investment (ROI). Five limitations of human resource management 1. Recent origin Compared to other social sciences, HRM is of recent origin. It is the reason why it lacks a universally approved academic base. As a result, different people have different definitions of the term HRM. Some managers consider it a new name for personnel management because some enterprises have renamed their traditional personnel management department to the human resource management department. A misplaced understanding of HRM results in wasted efforts. To truly benefit from the HRM, companies need a fundamental change in their very management philosophy, attitudes, and approaches. Superficial actions will not get the required results. Lack of understanding among the managers is a significant limitation of HRM that can only be overcome by changing the top management philosophy. 2. Cost of setting it up and installation HRM systems have a huge setup cost. If you are a small business, installing an HRM system can cost you thousands of dollars. Several expenses are involved in its setup, such as training staff to use it, software costs, consulting, and intensive time commitment to install and get the system running. There are several ways to cut this cost. You can use Software as a Service or SaaS HRM systems, but you will be spending hours on customer support, affecting productivity. You can also use automation software like Truein that can simplify some tasks of HRM. Truein is a hardware-less, cloud-based employee time and attendance tracking system with HR features such as overtime calculation, shift scheduling, leave management , attendance policy support, and integration with most payroll software. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help your organization to overcome human resource management’s limitations. 3. Time to train to use it HRM should be implemented only after assessing the training the development requirements of the employees. As such, an implementation causes a significant shift in responsibilities, and the aspirations and needs of the workers should be considered before creating human resource policies. Organizations have to make a proper training program to ensure that the implementation of HRM is successful. The time to train employees to use HRM causes disturbance in management’s productivity and the profitability of the organizations. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 4. It is for regular employees and not for the contractual workforce The human resource management system is designed around the regular workforce and has little accommodation for the requirements of the contractual workforce. In most industries, contractual workers make up a significant part of the workforce, and no dedicated provisions for them are one of the considerable limitations of HRM. As the work, attendance, and overtime policies for contractual workers are different; they must be maintained at a different level than HRM manages policies for full-time workers. Additionally, there are no features for contract worker overtime calculation, advanced shift management, and training programs. Screenshot Showing Temporary Workers Daily Attendance With In and Out Times Daily Attendance Data of All Employees Detailed Attendance Report of Employee Over Specified Time Periods Truein features a tracking option for temporary workers for faster onsite onboarding. Contract workers can onboard themselves with a single selfie. It also allows managers to have separate overtime calculation rules for contractual workers. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the attendance tracking of your employees! 5. Problematic if you have a surplus of staff HRM’s go-to approach for dealing with over-staffing problems is to terminate employees, offer a voluntary retirement scheme, etc. It can adversely affect the relationship between the organization and its employees. Workers cannot focus on productivity as the threat of termination always looms over them. This creates a hostile work environment and can harm workers’ mental health by putting negative psychological pressures. Conclusion HRM takes work to implement. Even some professionals need to understand its difference from regular human resources. While the limitations of human resource management we listed here are a concern, HRM has a spectacular impact on managerial effectiveness whenever it is implemented correctly. As a manager, you must find ways to overcome such limitations in your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Human Resource Management Problems and Solutions HR Automation: 8 Human Resource Processes That Can Be Improved With Automation Oregon PTO in 2024: Navigating Paid Leave and Beyond Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy May 31, 2024 Many employees with newborn children experience a transition in the lifestyle that requires time to adjust. While family and friends are available to provide support, employees need the assistance of their employers to get the right amount of time to bond and care for the newborn child before they can return to work. Working parents often struggle with balancing work and childcare, so companies should have an effective parental leave policy. An effective parental leave policy can build trust between employers and employees and result in employee retention and engagement. Below, we share a complete guide on parental leave policy and how you can write the best one for your organization. Table of Contents What is a parental leave policy? How to create a parental leave policy 1. Ask employees what they expect from the parental leave policy 2. Check what leaves your company can afford 3. Check your state and country rules 4. Write your policy and ask for suggestions from employees Conclusion What is a parental leave policy? A parental leave policy is a benefit that companies offer to employees who become new parents, allowing them paid or unpaid time off to take care of their child. With a newborn, there is a significant shift in the lifestyle of working parents due to a lack of sleep and hectic schedules. Such a change requires time to get used to, which is why companies should have provisions for parental leave. Usually, parental leave is available for both mothers and fathers. However, there can be separate maternity leaves and paternity leave policies. Depending on the provision of the company, and the state laws, parental leave can last for anywhere between two weeks and 4 months or even more. In India, the Maternity Benefit Act 1961 provides legal guidance to companies on creating a parental leave policy. It mentions that organizations must give maximum support to women employees to ensure their well-being and the well-being of their newborn or adopted child. The parental leave policy should cover both pre-and postnatal care. In the United States, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA) guarantees eligible employees up to 12 weeks of unpaid, protected parental leave. FMLA applies to businesses with more than 50 employees, and workers employed for at least 12 months are eligible for parental leaves. The paid parental leave policies usually cover mothers who recently gave birth and can also include their partners. However, some companies also have adoption leave for parents who recently adopted a child and need time to adjust. Primary caregivers (the person directly responsible for the child’s care) are often offered more time off than secondary caregivers. Other parental leave policies can address additional leaves for parents who need time off to take care of children if they are sick. How to create a parental leave policy Now that you understand the parental leave policy, you should also know how to create a genuinely beneficial policy for your company. You can begin by studying how companies globally handle parental leaves. If you work for an MNC, you must understand federal and local laws regarding leaves for working parents. Another important consideration is what benefits to offer to both parents. Dad’s paternity leave policy may have fewer provisions than the maternity leave policy. Ultimately, you must create a comprehensive parental leave policy explaining each condition so that employees understand the policy better. Here are the four most important aspects of creating a successful parental leave policy. 1. Ask employees what they expect from the parental leave policy Before you start drafting the parental leave policy for your company, it is essential to involve employees. It would help if you gathered ideas and opinions from the workers regarding what they need from parental leave. For anonymity and honest feedback, you can create anonymous surveys to encourage employees to share their views. You can also set up individual meetings with female workers to understand what policies would benefit them the most. Such an approach will help managers determine which benefits are crucial to be included in the parental leave policy and which provisions can be excluded. 2. Check what leaves your company can afford While the law stipulates that parental leave for fathers and mothers can be as little as two weeks or up to 4 months and more, the company must evaluate its budget. Only some organizations can afford or support a large number of parental leaves. Managers should list the company’s goals and needs for the parental leave policies and try to create a policy around these requirements while accounting for their budget. You can begin by reviewing the parental leave plans from other companies to get an idea of what policies to include. Moving forward, you can tweak these policies and customize provisions to fit your budget, company goals, and employee needs. 3. Check your state and country rules After understanding your employee’s expectations and your company’s budget, you should research the central and local laws and regulations regarding parental leave policy. Compliance is of extreme importance to avoid any legal hassles later on. Firstly, you should start by listing the benefits required by your state or federal government and include other benefits and remaining sections of the parental leave policy later. Such a strategic approach is necessary to ensure your parental leave policy meets all the legal requirements. For instance, if your company is in California, the local law requires employers to offer employees paid family leave (PFL) . This benefit is provided for employees who have worked with their current employer for at least 12 months. As part of the policy, employers must pay 60% to 70% of the employee’s wages for up to 12 weeks during parental leave. However, this paid leave does not provide job protection like the FMLA. 4. Write your policy and ask for suggestions from employees Once you have successfully gathered data from the above three steps, it’s time to put together employees of information, company budget details, and the law requirements to create an impeccable parental leave policy for your organization. After successfully drafting the policy, you must seek feedback and suggestions for amendments from employees before making it live. Also, share the parental leave policy draft with the leadership team to know their thoughts and opinions. This step is necessary to understand better the sustainability of the policy you created and determine whether it will benefit the employees. After you have gathered all the updates, evaluate each suggestion carefully and, if viable, incorporate it into the policy before officially implementing the newly created parental leave policy. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion While no federal laws make it compulsory for companies to offer paid parental leave, some state requirements do. However, organizations are recommended to proactively provide provisions for paid and unpaid parental leave to eligible employees. Having a comprehensive and employee family, parental leave policy not only plays a vital role in improved maternal health and better mental health for working parents but also reduces health insurance costs for the employers and improves their employer brand. Truein is a complete employee time and attendance system that can help HR managers better manage leave policies. It allows managers to create and share company attendance and leave policies with employees in real-time. You can also make changes to the policies and notify all workers about these changes. Truein is a hardware-less, cloud-based software solution that can be implemented for any industry. Schedule a demo today and see how it can automate attendance management, overtime calculation, leave management, and payroll integration. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form