Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein's accurate, automated, and centralized Time & Attendance Solution helped Unispice to streamline the attendance of their farm workers and production unit workers Customer Stories Sites 5 Staff 2000 Country Guatemala, Central America Industry Farming (Agriculture)/ Contractual Staff About Unispice Unispice is a farming industry firm headquartered in Guatemala in Central America.  The firm was founded in 1991 and has since expanded its operations to include state-of-the-art packing and processing plants, as well as its own farming operations. Their farming operations ensure transparency and traceability within the food industry and help trace each piece of produce directly to its source. Today, they grow farm-fresh vegetables and export them all over the world. Henry Carrillo Farm Administrator Unispice Our experience with Truein has been highly positive. The system has improved the income of personnel across different farms by reducing entry times and queues. The system’s reliance on face recognition for identification has strengthened the quality and accuracy of Time & Attendance process, eliminating any confusion arising from manual errors. Furthermore, Truein’s online record-keeping feature facilitates easy tracking of each staff, streamlining data capture and personnel administration. The platform’s dynamic and user-friendly interface has generated trust among end-users, while its comprehensive traceability feature ensures complete monitoring of new registrations, entry and exit records, and geo-positioned entry points. The system’s automated alerts also ensure compliance with relevant rules and regulations. Challenges Unispice has multiple farms spread across different locations, a production unit, and a head office. Some of their large farms are further divided into smaller farms. They employ contractual workers at their farms and production unit. They also have staff working for their head office. Time and Attendance management of the staff was a manual process at Unispice. The firm thus faced several challenges. Let’s look at some of their significant challenges and the solution they were looking for. At Unispice, farm workers are transferred across farms in the same location or to a different location on a daily basis. Manually keeping track of their headcount was a cumbersome process. It was also challenging to track the location of the workers and the hours they put in at each farm. The farm workers' attendance was manually managed and thus was error-prone and lacked transparency. The firm wanted to streamline and automate their staff's clocking In/Out procedures. Their farm workers are hired from various contractor agencies. The management wanted easy access to information regarding these agencies and the number of workers they send daily. They also wanted details about the staff domicile, especially their nationality, region, and the city they belong to. The farm workers are hired on a contractual basis and keep changing frequently. Thus, onboarding was a hassle and a continuous affair. Therefore, they sought an attendance system that could ease the onboarding process. The farm workers and production workers often trespassed into each other's areas. This was another challenge, and they wanted to restrict these movements. The farm workers are spread across multiple farms. Supervisors, HR, or management had to manually check for information on a worker's whereabouts, number of workers, workers on leave, etc. They expected an attendance system with centralized controls that would allow them to instantly access this information from any location. Solution Truein deployed attendance kiosks at their farms, production unit, and head office. They had separate kiosks for each farm. The Truein Kiosk App was automated, face-recognition based, and captured attendance accurately. Truein offered them centralized controls. They could now easily retrieve information on the number of workers on a farm, their location details, leave data, hours they put in on a farm, their clock In/Out time, etc., from the dashboard. With Truein, Unispice had easy access to information regarding their contractor agencies, the number of workers they were sending, the nationality of the workers, and any other information regarding the domicile of the workers. Truein also simplified the onboarding process for them. They could now easily add laborers through the kiosk. At Unispice, the workers are transferred across the farms daily. At times, a worker works at multiple farms in a day. With the additional site access feature, workers can be given access to multiple farms. They can now easily punch out from one farm and punch in at the farm they have been given access to. Truein also offered them kiosk-level restrictions. The farm laborers can now enter the production unit only if they have the required permission and vice versa. Truein offered them easy integration with their existing ERP and payroll and set up their staff directory (master data). The integration is real-time and gets reflected in their system on a real-time basis. Geofencing, multisite kiosk attendance, group attendance, OT, shifts, etc., are a few other features that Unispice has appreciated and implemented. Truein roll out: Truein went live across all 400+ stores of Vishal Mega Mart in a single day. More than 4000 users signed up and registered within 24 hours of launch without a single call being made to any person. The entire organization went live in 7 days. Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein’s automated and foolproof attendance system streamlined and simplified the attendance process at the farm. Accurate time capture helped prevent reconciliation issues and revenue leakages. Centralized controls offered them easy access to staff information from any location. They had real-time info on the number of workers procured from a contract agency and their domicile details. This brought about transparency when it comes to staff count and helped save revenue. Kiosk-level restrictions and geofencing prevented the farm workers from moving into the production unit and vice versa and bought accuracy in attendance. Easy integration with their existing ERP and payroll, simplified payroll processing Instant onboarding and quick attendance capturing improved staff productivity. With multi-site access, transferred farm workers can easily punch In/Out at multiple farms. This brought transparency regarding location and hours logged in at a farm. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Truein safeguarded UAPM from Time theft by the use of Geo fencing and random attendance audits Customer Stories Sites 3 Staff 100 Country Saudi Arabia Industry Facility Management/Remote Sites About UAPM Unified Asset & Property Management (UAPM) is a property management company based in Riyadh, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), with two regional offices in Dammam and Al-Qassim. In addition, UAPM has allied with facility management companies and service providers. Challenges UAPM faced significant challenges in tracking the attendance of its staff working in multiple shifts. Their staff was distributed across 45 sites in KSA. They wanted to ensure their staff remained at their job sites once they punched in and left only during the breaks. Secondly, they wanted an accurate and automated attendance system, as manual attendance tracking was making payroll calculations difficult. They were looking for a solution that could bring transparency and traceability. They expected the attendance solution to: Allow admins to check the location of their staff during punch-in and punch out Notify if any staff member leaves the office premises after punching in Allow them to set policies for OT calculations, leaves, and half days Provide real-time and detailed reports, including one for payroll processing Automate the staff attendance process Solution UAPM implemented face recognition based Truein Time and Attendance, which helped fix their pain points around the attendance of their staff. Truein offered: Efficient tracking of staff using the geofencing feature. Random attendance audits during shifts to check if the staff is present in the designated area (Job Location) Alerts for admins in case of any discrepancies Accurate and comprehensive reports for analysis Face recognition based attendance for complete visibility Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein brought transparency on multiple levels in the organization and removed potential time frauds. Random audits triggered during the staff shift timings ensured that they adhered completely to their shift timings and did not leave the job locations. No hardware costs were involved as the Truein app worked seamlessly on the personal mobile devices of the staff. Truein helped them upgrade from a cumbersome process of manual attendance management to a robust face attendance system that allowed them to save time and effort and avoid human errors. Detailed reports generated with automated calculations and policies gave them a 360 degrees overview of the attendance pattern of their staff and also helped them in payroll processing. They were pleased that Truein is very simple and handy to use and does not require a lot of training. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Veejay Facility Management has standardized Time & Attendance process across multiple customer sites using Truein Customer Stories Sites 30 Staff 500+ Country India Industry Facility Management/ Distributed Staff About Veejay Facility Management Veejay Facility Management Service was established in 1999. They provide a wide range of facility management services, including housekeeping, building management, labor contracting, and staffing solutions. The company offers its services pan India. Chirag Faterpekar Sr. Hr. Manager Veejay Facility Management We found the Truein app to be well-conceptualized and easy to use. Our experiences with the after-sales service team have also been very positive. The app has provided us with relevant information organized in an easily understandable way. Overall, an excellent app backed by a competent and responsive team. Challenges Veejay Facility faced problems with accurate attendance capturing and reconciliations because of its distributed staff at multiple customer sites. This created operational inefficiencies and affected their brand value and customer trust factor. They faced the following challenges: Diverse attendance processes across various customer locations Frequently changing staff and customer location Site-level attendance management for site supervisors Manual, error-prone calculations for OT, late marks, multiple check-ins, and check-out scenarios Reconciliation issues during payroll processing Solution Truein Time & Attendance helped them with their attendance management in the following ways: Centralized controls for a real-time view of all their sites Global dashboard for admin and site dashboard for site supervisors Geo-fencing & mobile attendance for distributed staff using the Truein user app Policies and compliances to automate reports Accurate In/Out tracking and quick onboarding with face recognition Real-time attendance access to their customers Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein Time and Attendance helped Veejay Facility Management to achieve its goals at multiple levels. Plugged leakages and optimized staff utilization helped achieve direct cost savings within the second month of implementation. Truein streamlined Veejay Facilty’s attendance processes. They could now easily manage attendance across their sites through centralized controls. Global reports and dashboards helped them to have a real-time view of attendance scenarios across their sites. Automated policies and compliances helped them save time and cost and do away with manual efforts. By activating geo-fencing and allowing staff to use their phones to mark attendance, they could accurately track attendance at multiple customer sites. Truein user app eased the process of staff attendance marking. The Company did not have to install attendance machines at every new site, saving them costs on attendance hardware. Quick onboarding at the customer sites with Face and ID card scans saved time and effort for the Company. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Godrej Lawkim Motors Customer Stories Sites 1 Staff 700+ Country India Industry Manufacturing About Godrej Lawkim Motors Godrej Lawkim Motors, a subsidiary of Godrej & Boyce since 1977,is a pioneer of hermetic motors and Motor Components manufacturing. Godrej LawkimMotors offers energy-efficient solutions for a variety of applications including commercial, industrial and home appliances. Sandeep Deo Sr. Manager HR Operations Godrej Truein helped us shift from a biometric attendance system to a Face Recognition based Time and Attendance Solution. We enquired with many vendors and suppliers for such attendance systems and finally opted for Truein for our Shindewadi plant. The system support, software, and product align with our needs and expectations. Thank you, Team Truein, for the support, and expecting a similar experience in the future. Challenges Godrej Lawkim Motors was using fingerprint based biometric devices and were facing difficulties in keeping track of contractual employee attendance and implementing various attendance policies. Traditional devices required physical contact and were prone to spread Covid. Managing late mark, shift hours, OT etc was manual and error prone. Frequently changing contract workers and their onboarding. Inefficient manual process and lack of transparency. Optimally plan Shift management. Solution To tackle the challenges faced by Godrej Lawkim Motors, Truein provided them with followings: Face recognition based attendance software with mask detection . Custom policies and compliances to cover every scenario. Accurate In/Out tracking and quick onboarding with face recognition for contract worker. Powerful features with easy to use user interface that requires no special training. Multiple customizable reports and analytics. Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Godrej Lawkim found Truein to be an effective solution for their needs. They were satisfied with the results and also decided to upgrade the attendance of their permanent employees with Truein. Improved Shift planning with optimal utilization of workforce. Streamlining their attendance process helped them plug the revenue leakages. Face attendance made physical contact at the time of attendance to zero enabling covid compliance entry. Automated policy implementation made payroll calculation easy. A better watch on contract workers helped meet compliances and carry out onboarding or delisting agencies decisions. The convenience of Truein mobile app made everything from taking attendance to watching real-time reports easy. Managers could track attendance in real-time to ensure site operations at full capacity. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Centralized controls and a real-time view of staff attendance at multiple sites were just what KAD Constructions was looking for Customer Stories Sites 4 Staff 900+ Country Saudi Arabia Industry Engineering and Construction/Remote Sites About KAD KAD is a multi-disciplined Engineering & Construction company that has expanded its operation in strategic infrastructure projects to become one of the most reliable contracting companies in the Gulf Cooperation Council ( GCC) region. It has offices in Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Fujairah, and Ajman. Challenges KAD faced significant challenges in managing attendance as they have distributed staff across multiple sites. Also, their leave management was done manually, so they faced difficulties keeping track of the staff leaves. They wanted a holistic solution to help them capture and report attendance effectively. Their expectations from the solution were: Management of multiple sites from one central location Leave management module with multi-level approvals Policies for OT calculations, leaves, and half days Real-time and detailed reports, including one for payroll processing Automated staff attendance process Solution KAD implemented Truein Time and Attendance, which helped them fix the pain points around their staff attendance. Truein offered them: Centralized controls to have a real-time view of all their sites Automated leave management module with the provision of multi-level hierarchy-wise approval Policies and compliances to automate reports for payroll Accurate and comprehensive reports for analysis Alerts for admins in case of any discrepancies Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein helped KAD Constructions gain better control of all their sites by providing a real-time view of them under a single platform. Centralized controls and real-time view enabled KAD Constructions efficiently manage staff attendance across their sites. The leave management module with multi-level hierarchy-wise approval helped achieve a structured leave management process with better controls. They upgraded from a cumbersome process of manual attendance management to a robust Time and Attendance system that helped them save time and effort and avoid human errors. Detailed reports generated with automated calculations and policies gave them a 360 degrees overview of their staff’s attendance pattern, and the customized reports helped them in payroll processing. They were pleased with the swift and timely response from Truein’s support team. The team helped them implement Truein at all their sites and solve any queries related to the Truein software. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process The Shriram Fortune Group managed their Field and Remote staff's attendance through centralized attendance monitoring Customer Stories Sites 6+ Staff 2000+ Country India Industry Financial Services/Roaming Staff About Shriram Fortune Group Shriram Fortune, backed by the Shriram Group, is among India’s premier integrated financial services providers. The company has a vast network of over 140 branches and a presence in more than 200 locations across the country. Challenges The Shriram Fortune Group has its remote and field staff spread across multiple locations in India. They faced challenges concerning attendance management across their sites. They wanted a solution that would help them in: Capturing and automating the attendance process Centralizing the management of multiple sites across India Restricting attendance capturing to specific locations and time Providing site-level attendance management for their site managers Automating the staff attendance process and policies for OT, late marks, early departure, and multiple check-ins and check-out scenarios Tracking attendance for field staff Solution Truein Time and Attendance solution helped the Shriram Group with their attendance management in the following ways: Centralized controls for a real-time view of all their sites Global dashboard for admin and site dashboard for sub-admin Policies and compliances to automate reports Geo-fencing and mobile attendance for remote and field workers Alerts and Approvals for admins if any discrepancies are observed Truein roll out: Truein went live across all 400+ stores of Vishal Mega Mart in a single day. More than 4000 users signed up and registered within 24 hours of launch without a single call being made to any person. The entire organization went live in 7 days. Do you want to know more ? Talk to us Watch a demo Result Truein Time and Attendance helped the Shriram Fortune Group to achieve its goals at multiple levels. They were able to manage attendance across their sites through centralized controls easily. Global reports and dashboards helped them get a real-time view of the attendance of their multiple sites. Automated policies and compliances helped them save time and costs and do away with manual efforts. By activating geo-fencing and allowing staff to use their phones to mark attendance, they could accurately track the attendance of remote and field staff. Managers at different levels could manage their subordinates through custom reports. Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form