Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Time and Attendance Solution for Contract and Distributed workforce Truein Pricing Plans Monthly Annually (Save 30%) Standard $ ₹ 2 /user/ month (billed annually) $24 Billed Annually up to 100 users + $20 / month (base price) (billed annually) $240 Base Price The base price is a fixed fee charged per customer, regardless of the number of users or locations. It covers essential services and includes standard support. Get started Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Get Started Start a Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Face recognition based Time Tracking from Mobile or shared Kiosk GPS Geofencing Customized Reports and Analytics Basic Breaks and Overtime rules 70+ Customizable policies Multi-site management Contract and Distributed workforce use case Unlimited Customer Support Advanced Time-off Management (Add-on) $0.30 /user/ month Premium up to 1000 users $ ₹ 3 /user/ month (billed annually) $30 Billed Annually + $20 / month (base price) (billed annually) $240 Base Price The base price is a fixed fee charged per customer, regardless of the number of users or locations. It covers essential services and includes standard support. Advanced Time Tracking $2 /user/ month Scheduler (Jobs and Shifts) $1 /user/ month Time-off Management $0.30 /user/ month Book a Demo Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Get Started Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Advanced Time Tracking & Scheduler Face Recognition Time Tracking via Mobile or Kiosk GPS Geofencing Overtime, Breaks, and 70+ Custom Policies Multi-Site Management Detailed Reports and Analytics Contract/Temp Workforce use case Contractor Agency Information Handling Activity Punch, Multiple In/Out Tracking Scheduler (Jobs and Shifts) 24*5 Support Face Recognition Time Tracking via Mobile or Kiosk GPS Geofencing Overtime, Breaks, and 70+ Custom Policies Multi-Site Management Detailed Reports and Analytics Contract/Temp Workforce use case Contractor Agency Information Handling Activity Punch, Multiple In/Out Tracking Scheduler (Jobs and Shifts) 24/5 Support Time-off Management (Add-on) $0.30 /user/ month Enterprise More than 2000 staff? More than 1000 staff? Talk to Sales Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy Everything in Premium + 24*5 Support Custom Integrations Custom Contracts and Billings Enterprise Account Manager ₹ 5,900 per year + ₹ 230 per user/year ₹ 1,475 per quarter + ₹ 57.5 per user/per quarter $ 20.18 per quarter + $ 0.78 per user/per quarter o 40% off Lite Plan Up to 90 users up to 100 users Key Features up to 100 users Face recognition based & Touchless Attendance via Kiosk app (tablet/mobile) at entrance Geo-fenced attendance via User app User/Admin app (Android, iOS) Admin web dashboard Attendance policies/compliance Multiple reports and Analytics 1 year of attendance historic data accessible Contract Workers attendance Offline attendance mode Start a Free Trial Get a Free Trial Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Feature list and Plan Comparison Features Standard Premium Enterprise Time Tracking Face recognition based Clock In / Clock Out Mobile App (Android, iOS) Grant Truein app access to your staff selectively for a seamless selfie based Clock in / Clock out. Role based access for staff, managers, admins and more. Kiosk App (Android, iOS) Set up common device for Time tracking of staff. Multiple kiosks can be set up on each location. Touchless Kiosk mode Allow Clock in / Clock out from each others mobile - Offline mode If internet connection is not available, time entries will still be recorded with face and geolocation in the device and synced automatically to server once connection is restored Clock In/Out access on multiple kiosks/locations Time clocking Reminders Stay on track with scheduled reminders for Clock In/ Clock Out, ensuring you never miss recording your work hours Face spoofing alerts Get admin alerts when any attempts to clock in/out using a photo or video. Spoofing attempts will result in immediate staff deactivation and invalidation of the attempted clock-in Mobile App access control Admins can selectively restrict staff-level access to specific app features like Clock In, Time Correction Requests, Viewing Past Worked Hours etc Breaktime tracking Automatic Breaktime deductions Setup policy to deduct break automatically from worked hours if staff is not required to clock breaks in timesheet. You can apply this for a selected group of staff. Custom Break Types Categorize your breaks like meal breaks, rest break etc as per your work scheduled and preferences - Activity Punch for field visit tracking - Multiple In-out tracking - Clock in / Clock out questions (coming soon) - Contract workers and Field staff use case GPS Geofencing Geofenced Clock In / Clock Out on staff level Restrict staff from clocking in and out only in authorized locations Geo tagging with each Time entry Advanced Geofencing policies E.g. Day-wise location restriction Customize geofencing policies based on specific days, configure strict/lenient geofencing (deny/allow with alerts for out-of-location clock-ins). Tailor geofencing to apply on clock in, clock out, or both as needed - Geofenced Kiosks (for your remote sites) Setup common kiosk device on remote sites or supervisor's mobile for staff to Clock in / Clock out with geofencing - Allow users to request new Clock-in location Staff Management Staff Information Management Customize Your Staff Fields Select which fields to keep on or off for your organization in Staff Directory Staff Documents upload Add/Edit/Deactivate staff - Individually and in Bulk Both from web and mobile Add new staff from Kiosk app Seamlessly enable designated Kiosks to add new staff, with admin controls to enable/disable access via settings Transfer staff to another site Face registration using Mobile app Empower staff to easily register their faces using the mobile app, offering convenient access for self-registration or through a designated kiosk. Admin operations from both Web and Mobile app Empower admins with comprehensive control through the Truein Mobile App. Effortlessly view staff clock-ins, approve time corrections, manage schedules, add staff, and more on-the-go. Contractor Agency use case Contractor agency details management Contractor level policies E.g. Daily Clock in limits Contractor specific Pay Rates Define daily or hourly pay rates tailored to each contract agency, providing flexibility and accuracy in managing compensation - Policies and Compliances Overtime rules and calculations Overtime Multiplier Rules Set different overtime multipliers (e.g., 1x, 1.5x, 2x). Apply these multipliers to regular days, weekly offs, or holidays, making your payable hours more accurate. 70+ Customizable Policies E.g. Late mark, half day etc Time Adjustments and Corrections Audit Logs for important data changes Multiple Timezone support Timesheet Approval and Sign Off Admin alerts on non-compliance Broadcast messages Admins can send targeted messages to entire company, speicific roles or designated staff categories for seamless communication and updates. - Shift Scheduling Bulk and Indvidual level scheduling Shift Policies E.g. Grace period, Auto-assign Shifts Scheduler on Mobile and Web Notify Staff for schedule changes Jobs Scheduling Jobs/Project Tracking Create jobs to track where staff spends their time Bulk and Individual level scheduling Job level policies E.g. Auto expire date, man days limit Job restrictions on Kiosk level Show specific jobs on selected kiosks Reports and Analytics Timesheets - Daily/Weekly/Biweekly/Monthly Multiple Report formats Analytics and Insights Daily Timesheet report in Email Get daily attendance summaries with downloadable reports sent to your email at your scheduled time Timesheet Sign off (coming soon) Review and signoff pay period timesheets of staff, with option to reopen signedoff timesheets - Account Administration Multiple Roles: Admin, Sub-Admin, Manager etc Custom Roles - - Multi site setup with centralized control Kiosk access control from Web/Mobile Multiple Date formats Alerts & Notification on Email, SMS, App Configure email and mobile app notifications for schedule changes, time-off requests, break reminders, and more. Keep your staff informed about published or updated schedules in real-time Pay Rate structure Define staff pay rates (hourly/daily rates) to generate timesheet reports with automated calculations.Set rates for a group of staff or at contractor agency level - Time off (Leave) Management Holiday Calendar Employee self service on mobile app Advanced Time off policies E.g. Comp off, Carry forward etc Setup leave hours/days that staff can earn based on company's policy Flexible Time off Options Customize your leave policies with full-day, half-day, and hourly options. Multi-level Time off Approvals Weekly Off scheduler and rules Customer support, updates Email Support Phone Support Chat Support (AI powered) - API and Integrations - 24*5 Support - - SSO Integration - - Custom Integrations - - Enterprise Account Manager - - See the difference Truein can make with a free trial. Start Free Trial Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt, CPO, Compass Group Truein has strengthened the quality and accuracy of our Time & Attendance process. It has helped to ensure compliance with relevant regulations and generating trust among end-users. Excellent product! Henry Carrillo, Farm Administrator, Unispice After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble, Payroll Administrator, Backerhaus Veit Frequently Asked Questions How does the free trial work? During Truein's free trial, you receive complete access to all its features for 14 days. This allows you to explore the product, and assess its impact on your business. No credit card is required for the trial. Upon becoming a customer, your staff information and other account data remain intact, eliminating the need for re-entry. What kind of support do I get? Truein provides fast and friendly support through multiple channels, including phone, chat, email, or log a ticket. Moreover, we offer training videos, user guides, and FAQs for convenient self-service support. What is considered an active user? Any employee, manager, contract worker, or admin who uses Truein for time tracking will counted as an active user What is the base price? How is it charged? The base price is a fixed fee charged per customer, regardless of the number of users or locations. It covers essential services and includes standard support. What will happen if staff changes? Truein billing happens for active staff. You may delete users who leave the organization and add new joiners. You may also keep deactivated staff lying in the portal; they are counted as billable users only if their status changed to ‘active’. Can I set up multiple Kiosks? Absolutely! Truein's billing is based on the number of users, not on the number of attendance devices or locations. You are free to deploy as many tablets or mobiles as needed. Additionally, all employees can install the Truein user app on their own mobile. Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Time and Attendance Solution for Contractand Distributed Workforce in the Middle East Use Truein to Optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakages. Powered by Face Recognition and AI. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Anywhere and Instant Runs on Mobile/Tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-Sites & Centralized Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and centralized controls. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per Location or Staff category. Shift, Overtime, late marks, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Priyanka Garg HR Manager, DIT University Despite the Covid pandemic having made day to day life complicated, without doubt the Truein App played a huge role in making work attendance easy and safe for our employee Read more Click for case study Smita Ringane Senior Executive, Bristlecone It’s almost and a year now we are associated. We really appreciate the way you and your team response us related any query. We must say your team full with enthusiasm Read more Click for case study Sandeep Deo Sr. Manager HR Operations, Godrej Lawkim Motors The COVID situation made us switch to new normal in many ways and one of them was switching from biometric attendance system to touchless Read more Click for case study Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is a simple app for attendance tracking for our staff. The truein team is always available to assist us whenever required. They’re always ready to meet our standards most professionally. Nagham Nasr Sr. Manager Reyada This face detection time & attendance software is very effective at our construction company. We did not face any trouble. Full marks to Truein and their support team! highly recommend it for any small or large enterprise. Wajahat Khan Payroll Admin MHM General Contracting Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance. Schedule a Demo Why Truein? Plug Revenue Leakages Avoid irregularities like Buddy punching, Wrong clock-ins, Overtime calculation
errors, Reconciliation issues, and more. Optimize Workforce Utilization Automated shift scheduling, Weekly off rotations, Job mapping, and analytics. Take
informed business decisions. Save HR hours Increase HR efficiencies. 70+ customizable policies designed to automate HR processes and boost workforce productivity. Reduce late arrivals and unplanned leave/absenteeism. Mobile/tablet app based (Android, iOS) No complicated hardware required. Truein runs on any Android or iOS device. Accurate face recognition Works with masks, under low light conditions, skin aging – you name it Powerful yet simple to use Practically designed features to ease operations and boost efficiency Enterprise-grade data security and privacy Comprehensive infra, stringent security protocols, recovery systems, and audits Dedicated support via multiple channels Fast and friendly team accessible over phone hotline, email or log a ticket Truein for companies with Contract and Distributed workforce Construction Manufacturing Supply Chain, Logistics Facility Management Retail Chain Manpower Staffing Agencies Other Contract Workforce Other Distributed Workforce One Truein, many applications Face Recognition Time & Attendance Accurate and Robust Face based clock-in for your staff. Read More Mobile-based Attendance No upfront investment. Truein works on any mobile or tablet. Read More Contract Workers Attendance Workers changing too often? Ease compliance with Truein. Read More Distributed Staff Attendance Geo-fence attendance and enable selfie or mobile attendance by users. Read More Bring Transparency and Control Explore Truein for your Organization. Talk to us Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Optimize Crew Management with Truein's Construction Employee Scheduling Software Experience seamless scheduling, automated notifications, and real-time insights with Truein to optimize labor resources, eliminate scheduling headaches, and enhance overall productivity. Try it for Free! Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Features of Truein Construction Crew Scheduling Software Efficient Workforce Management Maximize manpower productivity and minimize downtime by efficiently scheduling your construction crew. Truein's construction staff scheduling software helps ensuring optimal resource allocation, making sure the right skills are available at the right time. Real-Time Visibility Truein provides real-time visibility into shift assignments, enabling informed decision-making on the fly. Up-to-the-minute information keeps your projects on track, ensuring they are completed on time. Automated Notifications and Reminders Construction crew scheduling app ensures everyone is in the loop with automated alerts for shift assignments, shift changes, and Weekly off. Get notifications for Clock-in and out , Late marks, Regularization requests, and Time off requests. Regulatory Compliance Assurance Construction labor scheduling software ensures compliance with labor regulations. Truein automates the tracking of work hours, breaks, and overtime, reducing the risk of non-compliance and associated penalties. Last Moment Schedule changes Scheduling software for construction crews needs to be flexible to manage unpredictable site conditions. With Truein admins can easily change the shift schedule or enable shifts to get automatically allocated based on the In and Out time of the staff. Planned vs Actual Time Spent on a Job Truein not only simplifies construction employee scheduling but also helps you compare planned vs actual time spent on assigned jobs/projects, sites, shifts, staff categories, and even by attendance kiosks. Automated Shift Policy Truein’s construction crew scheduling software comes with multiple automated and customizable policies. Using it you can automate rules for Overtime, Eearly out, Late Entry, or Grace period based on in/out time etc. Assign Shift by Staff Categories Simplify roster creation by quickly sorting staff members based on their categories and assigning them to the necessary jobs and shifts. No more struggling through a ton of staff data to find the right person. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories More than a Scheduling Software Truein is not just a scheduling software but a complete Time and Attendance solution for Contract and Distributed workforce. Truein automates the entire Time and attendance process to Increase workforce productivity and Plug revenue leakages. Anywhere and Instant Runs on Mobile/tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-Sites & Centralized Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and controls. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per Location or Staff category. Shift, Overtime, late marks, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Face Clock-in with GPS geofencing Breaktime tracking Overtime Rules Job Mapping Reports and Analytics Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with HRMS/Payroll Shift Scheduling Time Off Management Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Contractor Agency Onboarding 100+ powerful features to improve workforce productivity Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Frequently Asked Questions Is the software customizable for our specific construction needs? Yes, Truein is designed to meet the unique needs of the construction industry. It comes with multiple customizable policies and reports that you can adjust to fit your business requirements. Can this construction shift scheduling software be integrated with our payroll software? Truein construction employee scheduling software can easily be integrated with any 3rd party or In-house software via the API. We have already integrated with QuickBooks, Sage, Xero, ADP, and Other major HRMS/Payroll software. How does the software handle vacation requests and time-off management? With Truein staff can easily apply for Time-off and vacation requests and view their status Using the Truien User app. There is also a provision for managers to apply for time off on behalf of the staff. Managers can easily check the request and have the option to approve or reject the request. There is also the option for Multi-level approvals. Is there a free trial available with construction shift scheduling software? Yes, Truein provides 14 days Free Trial. During the trial, you receive complete access to all its features. This allows you to explore the product, and assess its impact on your business. No credit card is required for the trial. Upon becoming a customer, your staff information and other account data remain intact, eliminating the need for re-entry. Is employee data safe and protected inside construction shift scheduling software? Yes, we prioritize the highest level of data security for our customers and their staff. We follow Enterprise-grade Security protocols, infrastructure, and processes to ensure your data is thoroughly protected and safeguarded. Our infrastructure covers required compliance and periodic third-party audits. How do you make a construction work schedule in Truein? Work schedules can be created effortlessly with Truein's construction labor scheduling software. You can set schedules by defining start and end times for different locations or sites, and assign workers to their respective Jobs and schedules. You can create schedules for individual or in bulk easily. Crew can easily access their schedules using the Truein mobile app, ensuring they stay updated. Does the software support compliance with labor laws and regulations? Yes, Truein’s construction worker scheduling software is designed to support compliance with labor laws and regulations. It offers over 70+ customizable policies related to attendance, overtime, break times, and time off. These policies can be tailored to align with the labor laws specific to your operational region. Additionally, you can create distinct staff categories and apply relevant policies to each category, ensuring compliance while effectively managing your workforce. Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Flex Schedules: A Complete Business Guide to Flexible Work Schedules Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Restaurant Employee Scheduling Software & App Effortlessly create, modify, and optimize restaurant staff schedules with centralized time tracking and employee scheduling. Try it for Free! Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Build Restaurant Schedules with Ease Tailor schedules to your restaurant's unique needs for optimal staffing levels and peak performance. Truein restaurant scheduling app can turn scheduling from a chore into a strategic advantage Simplify Job/Task Scheduling Take control of your restaurant's daily operations by efficiently scheduling specific tasks/job roles. Ensure that each employee is assigned tasks aligned with their skills, enhancing productivity. Manage Overtime Effectively Effectively manage and monitor overtime to control labor costs. Custom overtime rules make sure you avoid unnecessary cost by providing clear insights into employee work hours. Effective Scheduling for Peak Holiday Seasons Efficiently manage restaurant staff during peak times, reducing the risk of scheduling errors. Experience the flexibility to make last-minute adjustments, minimizing the hassle of unexpected absences and ensuring seamless operations on busy days. Time Off and Absence Management Truein's comprehensive time-off and absence management system allows your restaurant employees to request time off seamlessly, while managers can efficiently review and approve requests, ensuring adequate staffing levels and maintaining operational continuity. Improve Operational Efficiency Optimize your restaurant's overall operational efficiency by seamlessly integrating job and shift scheduling, time-off management, and compliance tracking. Truein restaurant scheduling software ensures that every aspect of workforce management works together smoothly. Reduce Tardiness Minimize tardiness and ensure punctuality with the scheduling and time-tracking capabilities of Truein’s restaurant scheduling application. Receive alerts for latecomers, allowing you to address staffing gaps promptly and maintain a consistent level of service. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories More than a Scheduling Software Truein is not just a scheduling software but a complete Time and Attendance solution for Contract and Distributed workforce. Truein automates the entire Time and attendance process to Increase workforce productivity and Plug revenue leakages. Anywhere and Instant Runs on Mobile/tablet devices. Comes with Geofencing. Multi-Sites & Centralized Real-time view of multiple sites. Get transparency and controls. 70+ Customizable Policies Policies as per Location or Staff category. Shift, Overtime, late marks, and more. Payroll-ready Reports Automated timesheets with final calculations for payroll processing. Face Clock-in with GPS geofencing Breaktime tracking Overtime Rules Job Mapping Reports and Analytics Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with HRMS/Payroll Shift Scheduling Time Off Management Admin Dashboard (Web & Mobile) Contractor Agency Onboarding 100+ powerful features to improve workforce productivity Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Frequently Asked Questions Can Truein handle shift rotations and split shifts? Yes, Truein can easily handle shift rotation and split shifts. Truein can be used by all types of restaurants regardless of what schedule they use for their staff. Will Truein be able to assign shifts based on employee availability? Yes, Truein can auto-track the employee’s shift based on his clock-in. Admin can also make last-minute shift changes based on available employees. Also, there will be a report available to see Scheduled vs. Actual staff turn-up. How does Truein software handle employee overtime? Admins can set custom automated policies to track overtime according to organizational rules. Overtime will be automatically calculated based on the clock-in and clock-out times of the employees, as well as the set policies. Round-Off Policies, Different Overtime Multiplier, and other additional policies can be applied as common rules or defined for each staff category. My staff isn't tech-savvy. Will they be able to operate Truein? Absolutely! Truein is user-friendly and easy to use. It is designed keeping in mind low/med skilled workforce can use without any training or learning curve. I have multiple restaurant locations. Will Truein work for me? Yes. Truein can easily handle multiple restaurant locations, offering centralized time and attendance tracking. It goes beyond allowing location-based and category-based custom policies and schedules to meet the unique needs of each location. Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Flex Schedules: A Complete Business Guide to Flexible Work Schedules Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form