Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Payroll Management »  					3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them May 20, 2024 A smooth-running payroll system requires overcoming daunting challenges throughout human resources. Often the responsibility of finding solutions for the payroll problems lies with a few people, which makes it difficult. Payroll has to comply with company guidelines and labor laws. Also, given that a company will have potentially complex in-house salary packages, payroll problems become even more challenging. Even the most complex payroll problems can become easy and less time-consuming with a proper strategy in place. We have listed the most commonly encountered payroll problems and practical solutions. This is a useful guide for any accounting managers, HRs and CEOs who are looking to streamline payroll at their organizations. Table of Contents 1. Problem: Incorrect employee information Solution 2. Problem: Late or inaccurate payments Solution 3. Problem: Compliance and regulatory issues Solution Truein for payroll problems 1. Problem: Incorrect employee information Managing a payroll database with correct employee information is crucial to ensure that your employees get paid. If there is incorrect or missing employee information, it can result in payroll processing errors resulting in delays in paying workers. This in turn can lead to frustration and dissatisfaction among affected employees. Also, incorrect employee information raises statutory compliance issues that can result in potential significant fines and penalties. To avoid payroll tax issues, there must be a way to keep employee information updated and accurate. Solution The solution is to make it possible for employees to view their payroll information and suggest corrections wherever necessary. HR managers must be trained to periodically audit employee information in company records to ensure it is accurate and updated. A software solution can automate most such audits, which in turn helps the organization stay compliant and keeps the employee information accurate. 2. Problem: Late or inaccurate payments Payroll processing is essential in workforce management and must be done accurately and promptly. If you fail to pay your workers on time, salary delay can potentially lead to dissatisfaction and cash flow issues for employees. This in turn can affect their productivity and relationship with employers. Delayed payments can also result in workers forming an opinion that either the company is not doing well or that they are being exploited. Affected employees could also discuss this with their colleagues, post it anonymously on the web thus severely denting your company’s reputation in front of other potential job seekers. According to a CIPP study , when asked how they felt after getting paid late: 48% of workers responded they felt their employers don’t care about their wellbeing 40% felt the risk to their financial condition 47% of employees felt due anxiety and worry 25% of workers were less engaged and productive Evidently, late payroll processing can have adverse effects, so appropriate actions must be taken to ensure workers are paid on time. Solution A simple solution for this problem is to choose the right payroll solution for your business that can take care of the calculations and checks before payroll can be processed. Manually handling the payroll of hundreds of workers is tedious, results in errors, and delays payments. With a software solution to accelerate payroll processing with automation, managers no longer have to spend hours on work-hour calculations. 3. Problem: Compliance and regulatory issues Staying compliant with the law and running the company within the prescribed legal framework is crucial. Keeping in sync with the latest labor laws, state regulations, legislations, and regulatory requirements, which at the same time running a company can be challenging for any business owner. Unless you have a legal team in place, it is not uncommon for companies to miss or fall foul on some intricate rules. This oversight though can have grave legal consequences attracting significant fines and penalties. Another challenge is to keep the staff updated with the compliance requirements. As the laws are amended from time to time, you will have to provide frequent training to ensure they are on the right side of the law. Solution An easy way to ensure compliance is to adopt a software solution that can keep checks in place to ensure regulatory requirements are met in payroll processing. It also serves as an easy way for HR to keep track of changes in laws and makes compliance a lot easier. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein for payroll problems Truein is a cloud-based employee time tracking and attendance system with several payroll automation features. It uses AI technology to identify and clock in workers accurately. With its GPS geofencing capabilities, it can be deployed at remote sites as well thus eliminating the need for maintaining manual timesheets. Calculating the attendance automatically generates data that can be integrated into your existing payroll software. It ensures that the payroll process is always on time and workers are paid accurately. There is also a self-service feature in the Truein app that allows employees to view their information in the company records and request corrections or updates if required. Managers can view all the employee details in the dashboard that can be integrated with the payroll system to strengthen accuracy further. Truein also offers 70+ policy templates that companies can customize as per the local, state, and federal labor laws and other regulations. If you are medium, large business looking for a solution that could automate payroll processing & attendance management and save the business thousands of dollars every year, then schedule a free demo today and give Truein a try. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors October 24, 2024 Construction companies have high resource requirements than other industries. This makes running a successful construction business complicated. Fortunately, there are several best contractors apps that can help them manage different aspects of the company. From project management, scheduling, and budgeting, to everything required for managing small business operations in the construction business, technology can help. Most contractors need help with keeping business operations in line. This is why over two-thirds of construction businesses miss deadlines or go over budget with their projects. To help alleviate most of these problems, there exist cloud-based contractor apps. These applications are built with the requirements of the construction business in mind. Here in this article, we list the best apps for construction that contractors can use for project management. We picked the top apps for contractors based on their features, technology, portability, and overall effectiveness. Let’s get started. Table of Contents Five best apps for contractors 1. Truein: Best time tracking scheduling app for contractors 2. LetsBuild: Best construction management app for project managers 3. All-In-One Calculator: Best for remodeling contractors 4. Field Promax 5. DeWalt Mobile Pro: Best for multi-contractor calculations 6. Sortly Frequently Asked Question What is a contractor app? What to look for in a contractor app? How do contractor apps work? What are the benefits of using a contractor app? Conclusion Five best apps for contractors 1. Truein: Best time tracking scheduling app for contractors Truein is one of the most robust staff time tracking and attendance apps . Its cloud-based, hardware-less design makes it the best time-tracking app for contractors . You can deploy it directly on the phones of laborers and supervisors. There are all the scheduling and time-tracking features available on this app that you will need to run your construction business. Truein has a complete schedule management feature that project managers can use to schedule workers on site and even track their location at the work site in real-time to ensure they are present at the job site through GPS Geofencing . Managers can ensure that workers are on-site, and approve shift switches, leaves, overtime, etc., using the app. This scheduling and time-tracking app for contractors is made for distributed and contractual workers. Therefore, if you hire subcontractors for construction projects, you can easily accommodate the workers they provide for the projects in the workforce management system. With its geofenced attendance tracking, you can eliminate time theft from your construction business. You can limit the workers to clock in and out only from the location of the job site. Furthermore, it directly integrates into payroll, which automates salary calculation and decreases errors. Truein is ideal for construction businesses of all sizes. You can manage multiple job sites, and several more features make it one of the best apps for construction. Key features: Real-time work hours tracking GPS Geofenced Attendance Auto-generate reports Company-wide policy creation that can be customized according to location and staff category Create and update shift schedules Allow workers to switch shifts Direct integration into the payroll system “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. LetsBuild: Best construction management app for project managers LetsBuild is one of the best apps for contractors to help the on-site teams collaborate efficiently. The app provides project managers to have clear access to the business operations and receive information in real-time. LetsBuild removes all the complications from sharing information between the site and the office. The app is a suite for products – Documents, Progress & Planning, QHSE, and Control and Insights. Construction managers and project supervisors can easily use this application to manage the labor force at multiple construction sites. Key Features: Track and update a project plan in real time Access the latest documents, construction drawings, and on-site plans Overview processes and insights Ensure compliance with standards and regulations at the worksite Easily digitize key processes for an efficient business operation Enable seamless communication and collaboration 3. All-In-One Calculator: Best for remodeling contractors All-In-One Calculator is a free android app that helps business owners to do various construction-related calculations. You can use it for everything from the simple unit and currency conversions to calculating volumes, areas, and proportions. In total, there is a set of 75 calculators and unit converters. If you use an iPhone, you can use Construction Calculator for similar functionality. It might not be a complete project management application, but it is still one of the best apps for remodeling contractors. Key Features: Calculate stair lengths, roof pitch, and rafter lengths Unit converters Quick-Job feature to quickly calculate projects like fencing, drywall, painting, and flooring It can be used for accurate estimations 4. Field Promax Field Promax is a powerful field service management tool designed to simplify day-to-day operations for contractors. It helps you streamline tasks like scheduling, work order management, and team coordination, all from one intuitive platform. With Field Promax, you can ensure your team stays connected, and jobs get done smoothly and on time. The app is ideal for managing technicians on-site and keeping everything in sync with your office. It provides features that help contractors gain real-time visibility over their field operations and customer requests, reducing errors and boosting efficiency. Key Features: Schedule and dispatch jobs quickly and easily Monitor work orders and technician progress in real time Generate invoices and accept payments on the spot Keep track of equipment Integrate seamlessly with QuickBooks, Xero for simplified accounting Access via mobile, making it perfect for teams on the go Field Promax gives contractors the tools to stay organized, handle multiple jobs efficiently, and provide better service to customers. 5. DeWalt Mobile Pro: Best for multi-contractor calculations DeWalt Mobile Pro is present in our list of top construction apps because it helps make the construction process much more efficient by offering several calculators and tools. Whether you want to calculate material costs or do job-site math, you can make more accurate estimates of project costs and deadlines using this app. It is an excellent app for contractors working on projects of any type or size. Key Features: Construction calculations Save calculations for later reference Mobile-friendly for both Android and iOS Add on packs for multiple trades Easy to use Free download 6. Sortly Sortly is the application that assists construction teams in staying on the project timeline and ensuring the project is completed within the deadlines by offering inventory management. For construction companies, it is often challenging to manage and track supplies, materials, and equipment spread out across multiple locations. With Sortly, teams at several sites can collaborate and track inventory as it moves between sites. It also has construction invoicing features that help project managers keep the project within budget. This app for contractors is suitable for companies of all sizes. Key Features : Organize inventory folders Easily upload existing inventory list Get real-time reporting insights on inventory Get alerted when you’re running low on stock Sync inventory management across multiple devices Frequently Asked Question What is a contractor app? Contractor apps are digitally driven tools helping automate the tasks associated with construction projects. These applications are designed to automate tasks, store documents, enable collaboration, offer tracking and scheduling, and more. What to look for in a contractor app? The best apps for contractors have the features to augment every segment of the construction project. Apart from facilitating the automation of most tasks, they should be easy to use and even easier to deploy. How do contractor apps work? All the contractor apps listed above are cloud-based and can be downloaded on your phone or tablet. After successful installation, contractors need to input data related to their project. These apps will help them track project progress, schedule workers, enable team communication, generate and store documents, and much more. What are the benefits of using a contractor app? These apps improve business efficiency by reducing manual administrative tasks. Compliance becomes more accessible as the regulations and policies can be seamlessly shared with workers. There are many delays in project progress as managers can keep an eye on all the tasks in real-time. There is improved communication between teams. Contractor apps are also cost-effective in minimizing paperwork, eliminating time theft, and accurately calculating overtime. Conclusion If you want some help to make your next construction project more efficient and profitable, these are the best apps for contractors to consider. From worker time tracking to resource management and everything in between, the apps listed in this guide offer all the capabilities. Using these apps, contractors can collaborate easily, schedule and time track workers, remain compliant, stay up to date with safety protocols and other information, and automate different tasks to streamline projects. Overall, Truein remains a complete solution for employee time tracking and attendance management for contractors in the construction industry. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors Idaho Overtime Laws: What Employers Must Know How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors October 15, 2024 Time-tracking apps offer contractors an easy, accurate, and productive way of monitoring work hours. Automatic time tracking makes it easier for independent contractors to calculate billable hours and helps with client billing. As a contractor, keeping track of your team’s productivity is essential to deliver projects on time and within budget. With the right tools, it is a simple task; otherwise, you will be wasting valuable time manually managing timesheets and losing money to time theft , buddy punching , and repeated payroll mistakes. This is why we handpicked the best time-tracking app for contractors that are software solutions tested to create 100% accurate timesheets. Let’s review the best time tracking software for contractors in detail. Table of Contents Top 5 time tracking apps for contractors 1. Truein Features: 2. Time Analytics Software Features: 3. BQE Core Features: 4. eSub Features: 5. Everhour Features: How to choose the best timesheet app for contractors? Conclusion Top 5 time tracking apps for contractors 1. Truein Truein is at the top of the list for a reason. This cloud-based time tracking app for contractors is a tool to centralize and foolproof time tracking for your business. With Truein, independent contractors can manage timesheets and monitor their workers’ work hours and attendance easily and efficiently. Its hardwareless design supports multiple sites, providing freedom to monitor workers at any number of sites from a central location. Furthermore, Truein’s face-based time and attendance procedure makes buddy punching impossible. It also offers a geofenced selfie-based clock-in. Simply put, workers need to be present at the designated job site to be able to clock in, which ensures there is no time theft. Apart from these features, it offers automated timesheets, over 70 customizable policies, leave and overtime management, and payroll integrations. Features: GPS geofencing to manage multiple sites Real-time time tracking Offline attendance features ensure time tracking is accurate even if there are internet connectivity issues at remote sites. Automated timesheets log daily work hours, overtime, breaks, etc. Fast selfie-based onboarding allows contractors to include new workers in teams instantly Instantly generate reports and get real time analytics for any number of locations Payroll-ready reports with final calculations for accurate and faster payroll processing Robust shift scheduling with a flexible policy to automatically allocate shifts. Supports multiple points of access “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Time Analytics Software Time Analytics Software is specifically crafted for consulting firms, contractors, engineers, architects, and similar professionals. It provides comprehensive time and cost tracking for construction workers and other team members on a project, client, or task basis. This software empowers contractors by streamlining administrative tasks and optimizing time utilization, enabling them to focus on delivering projects punctually and within budgetary constraints. With this construction timesheet app, you gain the ability to establish and monitor vital key performance indicators (KPIs). These include metrics like work time utilization, billable and non-billable hours per project, breakdown of time spent on various activities, employee productivity rates, client profitability analysis, invoicing accuracy, and more. Features: Track time on specified tasks, projects, and clients Manual time entry and timer functionality Mark hours as billable with accompanying notes Automatic cost allocation to projects Daily and weekly timesheets display time entries per project, client, and task Manager can review and edit timesheets Flexible filtering and export options in Excel format Generate project time and cost reports Analyze revenue and profits Access actionable visual reports and performance dashboard Monitor total, billable, and non-billable hours Gain insights into time utilization patterns Track overtime hours for efficient team management Review billable hours for each client before invoicing Export invoices to Excel for final adjustments 3. BQE Core Mainly an accounting and invoicing software tool, BQE Core is also a tremendous time-tracking app suitable for contractors. Its time management modules work on both web and mobile and its offers employee database management, billable hours calculation, and scheduling. However, its time-tracking and report generation are less robust than Truein. It is more suitable if a contractor wants expense management that also offers time tracking. Features: Smart timecards and pre-populated timesheets with customizable date ranges Track time and expense and submit right from the mobile app GPS time tracking Copy timesheets to eliminate manual entry Set timesheet guidelines and policies BQE Core is a contractor timesheet app more aligned with expense tracking and planning. Its time-tracking capabilities are good enough for any contractor to use for their business management. 4. eSub If you require an independent contractor time-tracking app built around project management, you can try eSub. It is a time-tracking and project-management tool designed for contractors who employ many teams. This is why eSub might not be suitable for individual contractors, plus its pricing on the higher side. That being said, it can efficiently track the time and progress of projects. This application allows contractors to easily monitor labor activities, site events, material costs, and other workforce information. eSub stores all this information in a searchable database which is updated in real-time. Unlike Truein, which has excellently detailed and user-friendly time-tracking features, this contractor timesheet software requires some learning. Features: Real-time project visibility and insights Designed with commercial trade contractors Offers organization access to all documents related to a project Available on both web and mobile Works as a cloud-based SaaS service If you are a commercial contractor struggling to maintain multiple teams and looking for enterprise-level software, eSub is the right app. 5. Everhour Everhour markets itself as a free and easy-to-use time tracker. That sounds tempting, but it has its limitations. In an attempt to make its timesheets more detailed, the creators have opted for a complicated dashboard. Everhour thus requires a bit of training to get used to. Features: Time-tracking app with project and team management features More suitable for IT companies that require integration to platforms like Asana, Trello, and GitHub Ability to add reminders and auto-stop timers Keep track of project budgets and schedule thresholds Forward resource planning feature for project management Report and invoicing feature Contractors can use Everhour for time tracking as it has robust features on that front, but as previously mentioned, it will require some training. It is the best-suited app for contract workers in the IT industry. How to choose the best timesheet app for contractors? The choice can be challenging with dozens of time-tracking apps on the market. Here are the essential features a reliable contractor timesheet software must have. Real-time tracking: Contractors must be able to monitor their workers in real-time to ensure they are productive while on the job site. Real-time tracking minimizes the chances of time theft. Ability to edit timesheets: The best time-tracking apps will let you correct inaccuracies, if any, in timesheets for accurate payroll. Workers might need to remember to clock in or leave the timer running while they are off for lunch; such situations must be corrected as soon as identified. This is why a time-tracking app for contractors must offer options to edit time blocks manually. Reporting and analytics: Time-tracking apps must also offer an easy to use dashboard and generate reports allowing them to analyze their business based on time spent per project or person daily, weekly, or monthly. Analytics is a feature that provides business owners with data that helps drive business decisions and optimizes the workforce for higher productivity and profit. Data download and integration: Today, applications are required to offer integration to expand their functionality to other aspects of business operations. A time-tracking app must offer integration with payroll software to automate most of the admin tasks associated with payroll processing. Additionally, it should provide an option to download data and reports. Multiple points of access: The best time-tracking apps offers easy and convenient options to clock in and out from various interfaces. It can be through a web browser, mobile app, or a standalone kiosk. This feature ensures that contractors can use the same software across multiple locations and access points. Conclusion Choosing a time-tracking app for contractors gets easier when you know the features to look for. Time tracking is essential for your business as it helps plug any revenue leaks such as time theft and poor productivity. Among the five listed applications, Truein offers the most value for both money and features and it is the most affordable cloud-based time tracking app for contractors. Request a demo today and try it for free! Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Oct 15, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Oct 15, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Oct 15, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Oct 15, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Oct 15, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Best Geofencing Apps for Employees in 2024 Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form