Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? July 23, 2024 The manufacturing industry is one of the largest employers in India. More than 22 million workers are employed by manufacturing businesses . With such a large workforce, delegating work and keeping operations smooth would be easier. But, the manufacturing sector in the country suffers due to overtime issues . Overtime in the manufacturing industry is a problem for companies and workers. Once overtime was seen as a way to improve productivity, but now it is considered one of the most significant stress sources that lead to poor work-life balance. T his article will discuss how to reduce overtime in manufacturing without affecting output. We will list some strategies to overcome the issue. But first, let’s find out why overtime can be counterproductive. Table of Contents Why should organizations try to reduce overtime? 1. Financial Impact 2. Impact on performance 3. Precursor of health problems 6 Ways to reduce overtime in the manufacturing industry 1. Make sure your team has the right tool, equipment, and resources to complete the work on time 2. Create an overtime policy 3. Cross-train your employees 4. Allow flexible work schedules 5. Allow overtime only when required 6. Schedule shifts Conclusion Why should organizations try to reduce overtime? Overtime is the number of hours employees work that exceed their regular hours. Companies and HR managers often overlook the dangers of overtime. But, when observed closely, it is startling how costly overtime issues can be. Not only can it adversely affect the company’s bottom line, but it can have side effects on the workers. 1. Financial Impact The financial burden for the company to compensate overtime can be a significant undertaking. According to the labor laws in the country, employees must be remunerated at twice the rate of their regular working hours. While some employees might need to work overtime for extra income, others use overtime rates to work unnecessarily to be compensated above their average wage rate. For a company paying employees overtime rates for work that can be accommodated during the regular shift hour is a pitfall that can profoundly affect its bottom line. 2. Impact on performance A more visceral effect of overtime on workers is the reduced performance. In this whitepaper , J. Nevison clearly illustrates that over time can negatively affect performance. He suggests that there is little productive work done when workers need to work over and above 50 hours per week. Two other supporting studies found the whitepaper valid and showed that workforce productivity drops by an additional 10 hours with an increase of 4 to 12 hours in their work shifts. Overworked employees are less focused on their jobs and feel alienated in the workplace. It also has an impact on their morale making them more susceptible to performance issues . Companies must be aware of the financial liability of such a decline in productivity. 3. Precursor of health problems While financial and productivity impacts can be managed, the harmful effects of overtime on workers’ health are even more severe. Countless studies link overtime or overwork to health issues. It leads to poor work-life balance that also affects personal relationships. According to one study, workers who worked three or more hours longer than the usual shift (7 hours a day) are at a 60% higher risk of heart and cardiovascular health issues . Other health issues are associated with overtime, such as high blood pressure, increased stress, anxiety, lower back problems, alcoholism, and addiction issues. All these issues bring productivity lapses in the workforce, leading to higher absenteeism rates. 6 Ways to reduce overtime in the manufacturing industry When you identify the causes of overtime in your company, it is essential to resolve them as soon as possible. Furthermore, if your company doesn’t experience regular overtime hours, you should still have measures to avoid overtime. Here are some ways using which manufacturing companies can reduce overtime. 1. Make sure your team has the right tool, equipment, and resources to complete the work on time To reduce overtime, you have to make all the right tools and resources available that allow the most efficient use of employee hours. Allow workers to work smarter, not longer. There are a lot many manual and administrative tasks that can be automated to free human resources. People working behind the desk often spend more than one-fourth of their day reading and responding to emails alone . How can you expect to reduce overtime if the monotonous, day-to-day task consumes a quarter of workers’ shift time? It is why it is necessary to automate such tasks to allow workers to focus on more productive tasks that add value to the company and boost productivity. You can use tools like Asana and Jira for project planning and team collaboration. Manual attendance keeping and leave management is one task that takes much time for the HR team to manage. With the availability of attendance systems like Truein, recording and managing attendance can be automated . It has several benefits for both employees and HR managers. Truein integrates with payroll software, so it is easy to track attendance and overtime to pay only for the hours a worker worked. As an automated face-recognition system , workers cannot trick Truein with time theft . These are little adjustments at the outset but can go a long way to reduce overtime. When you free up human resources, they invest most of their time on actual responsibilities. 2. Create an overtime policy Just verbal overtime instructions will not help curb overtime. It would be best if you had a well-thought overtime policy to communicate company expectations to the workers. An official overtime policy explains all the aspects of working overtime. It details how employees will be compensated for overtime hours. Discuss with the HR managers how to reduce overtime in manufacturing by implementing an overtime policy. When preparing the overtime policy, clarify who will approve the overtime hours, manage shifts, and how much say the employees have in the matter. F or a detailed guide on how to create an overtime policy, check out this post . Just creating an overtime policy won’t be enough; you must ensure that all employees and managers have access to the overtime policy. Truein can help with it as well. HR managers can create and implement overtime policy from the dashboard, and employees can access the procedure on their smartphones. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to automate the attendance capturing and overtime calculation in your manufacturing industry. An official overtime policy leaves little scope for misunderstanding and lays strict ground rules for employees. It ensures workers are not exploiting overtime. 3. Cross-train your employees In the manufacturing industry , it is possible to cross-train employees. For instance, having all the floor workers trained in handling CNC machines can save you money. Rather than scheduling overtime or hiring additional staff, you can pull workers from other departments to work on CNC machines during busy periods. Cross-training employees can significantly benefit your company’s bottom line. It helps make schedules much more efficient and ensures workers are not working excessive overtime. You have to ensure there is no staff shortage in a department; if there is, cross-train other workers to pick up the slack instead of staff working overtime. 4. Allow flexible work schedules It is a myth that the 9-5 work hours are the best for productivity. Many workers report that working from home is more productive than working in an office. For the manufacturing industry, it is a challenge as most of the workforce needs to be present on-site to keep the production optimal. While the administrative staff, to an extent, can be allowed to work from home, most of the workers need to be present in the office. You can have more flexible work schedules for workers to enable them to work shifts that are adjusted to the most productive hours. Employees with flexible schedules can focus more, improving their productivity and reducing the chances of overtime. 5. Allow overtime only when required While there are rules on how workers must get compensation for the overtime hours, there is no cap on how many hours employees can work for overtime. You must have policies that explicitly explain how many hours an employee can work overtime. As an employer, you have the authority to set overtime rules freely. It would help if you allowed overtime only when it is required. Determine a weekly, monthly, or annual cap of overtime hours your business can afford. This will help you decide the scope of overtime employees can work when needed, ensuring that it does not become a norm. It will also help distribute work evenly amongst workers such that all employees have an equal chance of working overtime hours for extra pay. 6. Schedule shifts Employee shift scheduling must help to reduce overtime, not increase it. It is essential to ensure that your HR team is preparing employee schedules that are organized, managed, and updated regularly. It will allow your organization to accurately match staffing levels to the work demand and eliminate any requirement for overtime. Truein can help you organize staff according to the need to distribute work and make schedules that accommodate work demands without overtime. If your company still relies on manual sheets or Excel to manage shifts and overtime, you will benefit by switching to Truein, which completely automates scheduling and attendance management. It allows managers and supervisors to keep track of employees to ensure they are working their shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Overtime can be one of the biggest profit-killers for a manufacturing company. It is essential to reduce overtime to remain profitable and avoid adverse effects on employees’ health and productivity. We hope this article will provide you with all the insights you need on reducing overtime in manufacturing. T ruein has been helping some of the biggest manufacturing companies in the country reduce unnecessary overtime. Our comprehensive time and attendance management system also offers employee scheduling and overtime tracking features. With Truein’s time and attendance software for manufacturing , you can refine your company’s scheduling process and optimize the workforce for maximum productivity without overtime. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? July 23, 2024 Within an organization, there are several provisions for leave management. How a company deals with leave applications depends on its business model, but there are some specific regulations around the subject. The sandwich leave policy is one such provision that creates confusion for workers. Some companies use this policy while others don’t. There are no specific legal restrictions or conditions around the policy, and companies can implement it as long as employee discussions follow. Here we explore the sandwich leave policy and its implications for employees and employers. Table of Contents What is a sandwich leave policy? What is the sandwich policy rule as per the Labour Law? What are the advantages and disadvantages of creating a sandwich leave policy? How Vacation Tracker can help Conclusion What is a sandwich leave policy? Suppose there is a public holiday falling on Friday. You apply for leave on Thursday to get a mini-vacation of four days, including the weekends, at the cost of just one leave from your yearly quota. However, they revert to your leave mail and ask you to agree that all four days of leave will be removed from your annual leave quota. What just happened? Your leaves have been sandwiched. Here your company is following the sandwich leave policy that allows HR managers to deduct the entire duration of time-off, i.e., the leaves are taken around public holidays such as national holidays and weekends. The sandwich leave policy was introduced for factory workers where productivity and output greatly depend on the workforce. Companies can implement this policy whether the employees like it or not, as there is no provision against it. Let’s see how the labor law attends to this provision for a better understanding. What is the sandwich policy rule as per the Labour Law? The sandwich policy is free of any legal restrictions and provisions in India and several other parts of the world. Globally though labour laws & policies may differ from state to state. Therefore it is best to understand the laws of the state under whose jurisdiction your company comes under while formulating sandwich leave policies. Companies usually use the policy to deter long time offs and prevent employee absenteeism . A company can use a sandwich leave policy after discussing the terms with the employee. If there is no mention of the policy in the employment contract and your company still enforces it, you can talk to the HR department regarding the same. However, if the sandwich leave policy is mentioned in the employment contract, the company can club the time-off and public holidays as per the policy. As per the Labour Law in the country, adult workers are entitled to two days of paid leave for every twenty days worked. Thus, in a year, a worker can take 15 days of paid leaves as per the law, provided they worked consistently without absenteeism. Here’s what the provision of Labour Law states about the leave entitlement for workers: Type of Leave Privileged Leave/ Earned Leave Casual Leave Quantum per year 30 days after 12 months of continuous employment 14 days Entitlement 5 leaves after 3 months of employment completing 60 days of work in that period Once a year Accumulation 90 days of paid leave in 3 years Not allowed What are the advantages and disadvantages of creating a sandwich leave policy? If a company feels that the employees are exploiting the leave policy by clubbing regular working days with public holidays, then a sandwich leave policy can help curb the practice. Another benefit of the policy is that it can prevent high absenteeism around the holiday season. If many workers take leave around the same time, production at the company will be affected. This can have a severe impact on revenue and profitability. Companies with global customers can use a sandwich leave policy to ensure customer services are not affected. When employees and customers are in different geographies, time management is of the essence. This leave policy can ensure continuous customer satisfaction. When not appropriately utilized, the sandwich leave policy can create a severe distrust between the employer and employees. It is the responsibility of the employers to inform workers about the approach to ensure there are no unpleasant surprises. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How Vacation Tracker can help For HR managers, leave management can be a herculean task without tools to aid them. Truein is an end-to-end leave and attendance management system that operates efficiently at scale. With Truein, you can create multiple leave management rules, including the sandwich leave policy. HR managers can automate the flow between attendance, leaves, and payroll with Truein, saving resources that can be invested in boosting the organization’s overall productivity. Setting up Sandwich policy on Truein is easy. You can apply sandwich rule by enabling the policy “Apply sandwich rule” directly from the Web Dashboard. Here is the process. Go to Leaves. Setup Leaves > Manage Leave Policies > Add/Edit policy and scroll down to enable “Apply sandwich rule” policy. It’s that easy. Setup Leaves > Manage Leave Policies Add/Edit policy Enable/disable apply sandwich rule Other features include attendance and leave policy management, set alerts, automatically creating attendance reports, and many more. To see the sandwich policy at work, sign up for a free demo here . Conclusion Leave management is essential to ensure a friendly work environment. The sandwich leave policy must be carefully implemented. As an HR manager, you must provide a well-structured leave policy. Help employees understand their leave entitlements and policies around the same. When workers know the company’s policies, they can avail of leaves effectively without affecting productivity and revenue. Other features include attendance and leave policy management, set alerts, automatically creating attendance reports, and many more. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is Geofencing and How Does It Work? Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Create An Employee Monthly Attendance Report? How To Create An Employee Monthly Attendance Report? July 23, 2024 For any business, the most valuable resource is its workforce. As an HR manager, your role is to manage the employees in the best possible manner. An essential aspect of employee management is attendance keeping. It entails more than just recording the clock in and out. With proper attendance management, companies can boost productivity and profit while increasing the turnover rate. The employee monthly attendance report is a tool that can help you avoid attendance management errors and ensure that the organization is compliant with all labor laws and regulations. A monthly attendance report is also an effective way to ensure that all employees are paid accurately and on time. In this article, we will explain how to create an employee attendance report and how it will benefit the company and the workforce. Table of Contents What is an employee monthly attendance report? How to create a monthly attendance report? Vital information to be included: How can an employee's monthly attendance report help manage attendance more efficiently? 1. Helps with shift management 2. Identify attendance issues before they impact productivity 3. Ensures accurate compensation What are the disadvantages of tracking attendance manually? Truein – An Alternative to Manual Attendance Reports Conclusion What is an employee monthly attendance report? The employee monthly attendance report helps you to keep track of employee attendance by month. It is an effective way of recording employee attendance information and reporting it to the management to assist in decision-making. Automatic attendance systems like Truein can auto-generate monthly attendance reports, but HR managers can manually prepare the report using Excel or Google Sheets. If you are not aware of how to create attendance reports, then we can help. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How to create a monthly attendance report? A comprehensive monthly attendance report keeps track of all the essential information regarding employee attendance – time in and time out, personal leaves, sick leaves , location, and days on which an employee did not show up or give prior notice. All this information is recorded every month and is a great way to track the attendance performance of individual employees and teams. If you want to prepare a manual employee monthly attendance report, Excel or Google Sheets must be the tool of choice. We are about to explain how you can create an actionable attendance monthly report with Google sheets. Vital information to be included: The first column of the report must have the month as the heading. This column will specify the essential information for each employee, i.e., name, position, and department. There will be additional 31 columns representing each day of the month. You will create various labels to visually mark the attendance status of each employee in the cells. For instance, the S label can denote sick leave, P for personal leave, and so on. Below each employee row, add another row to represent their attendance statistics, such as total attended days, sick leaves, announced leaves, etc. When you put the label in a cell, you can create counters to calculate the statistics to fill the data in this row. A t the end of the employee monthly attendance report, create two columns, one for notes and the other for monthly statistics for the combined attendance report for all employees. To help you with the task, we have already created an employee attendance report with a counter function that you can download and use directly. You can download the monthly attendance report template here . How can an employee's monthly attendance report help manage attendance more efficiently? 1. Helps with shift management To plan shifts, you will need attendance data that informs you about each employee’s attendance. A monthly attendance report can provide you with the information in a much more manageable way. You can plan and schedule shifts based on the number of available employees and workload. 2. Identify attendance issues before they impact productivity Attendance issues like employee absenteeism , time theft , and regular late time in or time out can cost companies big money. Due to attendance issues and lost productivity, employers lose $84 billion annually . HR managers are the first line of defense to protect organizations from slumping into such productivity losses by identifying issues early on. The employee department’s monthly attendance report can help with this problem. 3. Ensures accurate compensation Payroll is a vital HR function, and the salaries must be calculated accurately by properly tracking employee time and attendance . You can ensure wages are paid accurately and on time when you have relevant employee attendance data. It is also to build trust within the organization to prevent compliance issues. What are the disadvantages of tracking attendance manually? Manual attendance reporting has its limitations. It can get tedious to maintain the employee monthly attendance report if your company employs a large number of workers. Tracking leaves, overtime, absenteeism, and other issues for a large workforce is challenging. It can lead to productivity issues and create much overhead for the HR managers. Not being able to accurately or efficiently track attendance data can lead to errors in compensation. This can adversely impact employee morale and trust. It also affects the brand image of an organization. A more efficient way to create employee monthly attendance reports is to use automated software that can easily integrate them into payroll systems. Truein – An Alternative to Manual Attendance Reports Truein is a face recognition attendance software that can record attendance for contractual, field, in-office, and distributed employees. While its attendance recording capabilities are robust, Truein also offers the ability to generate automated reports based on your organization’s attendance policies . You can also download detailed attendance report spreadsheets or integrate Truein with your existing payroll system for all your payroll needs. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate attendance tracking and get daily, bi-weekly and monthly attendance reports. Conclusion There’s a lot that goes into effective employee management. Attendance management is one of the most critical tasks for HR employees that help them meet productivity challenges and build a reliable employer brand. We hope this employee monthly attendance report-making guide will help you with attendance management. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? How to Create An Employee Handbook? (A Complete Guide with Examples 2024) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					What Is Workforce Optimization? Benefits and Top 5 Strategies What Is Workforce Optimization? Benefits and Top 5 Strategies July 23, 2024 In the post-pandemic era, work culture is changing, and businesses are evolving. It might seem that little is under control, but some core processes vital to business operations can still be managed. The workforce is at the center of the changes that COVID-19 put into perspective. People are looking for better work-life balance , resignations are at an all-time high, and there is an increasing need for workforce optimization. Workforce Optimization (WFO) is what “work smarter, not harder” implies. It is about enabling employees to work at their best by streamlining various business operation processes. In this post, we will explore workforce optimization and strategies and techniques you can use to increase productivity with the same workforce. Table of Contents What is Workforce Optimization? What are the benefits of workforce optimization? 1. Increased efficiency and productivity 2. Staff management to reduce costs and improve savings 3. Improved customer service and retention 5 Workforce optimization strategies 1. Scheduling employees efficiently 2. Time management and attendance tracking 3. Monitor performance and Task completion 4. Improve communications between managers and employees 5. Adopt Cost-Effective Operations Conclusion What is Workforce Optimization? According to Wikipedia , “Workforce optimization (WFO) is a business strategy that integrates business performance considerations with workforce management. The strategy involves automating processes, data visibility, compliance on legislation, and solving business problems related to staffing.” In simple terms, workforce optimization is a strategic management practice aiming to improve a company’s employees’ efficiency, performance, and productivity. Here, the ultimate goal is to streamline every possible process to create an environment for optimizing the existing workforce and achieving overall organizational success. Industries can benefit from effective workforce optimization strategies and it is a common practice in the IT and Human Resource sectors. Today, retail, manufacturing, and financial services utilize workforce optimization techniques to improve productivity and revenues. Here the common approach is to monitor a specific position’s activity to anticipate the number of employees required to meet the forecasted requirement. However, you must not confuse WFO with Lean Six Sigma, Agile, or other optimization methodologies that organizations use to make processes and people more productive. Instead, WFO combines most of these methodologies with a unique approach to streamline the workforce for boosted productivity. Software companies offer WFO in their products to help industries with workforce management through quality monitoring, eLearning, liability recording, surveying, coaching, and performance management. You can use workforce optimization to streamline many business operations, including automation, legislation compliance, customer service, and solving business problems. What are the benefits of workforce optimization? Workforce optimization allows companies to get the most out of the talent available and adds agility and cost efficiency needed to succeed. Let’s check out some significant benefits of implementing workforce optimization strategies in your company. 1. Increased efficiency and productivity Optimizing the workforce to keep its productivity and efficiency high is essential. With workforce optimization, you can engage talent and encourage them to deliver increased output. Through analytics and insights, you can track the performance of individual workers and prioritize ways to help them improve daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly. With a streamlined work environment, straightforward onboarding process, and positive work environment, employees can perform at their best without feeling burnout. It also encourages employees to contribute to company goals with their self-motivated efforts. 2. Staff management to reduce costs and improve savings Proper staffing is necessary to ensure that the required number of employees is always available on the floor. That being said, it does not imply that you overstaff. Both overstaffing and understaffing can be the cause of loss for a business. Work optimization offers many cost savings opportunities. The most important benefits include: Flexibility in hiring the right talent can help you lower the overall payroll costs and reduce the time spent on recruiting activities. Workforce optimization can help companies discover the requirements for a position and match it against available talent. With WFO, you can significantly reduce the risk of worker misclassification, avoiding costly lawsuits, fines, and penalties. It is essential if your company operates in multiple markets with varying employee laws. It also creates opportunities to provide better customer service as a company can offer the best customer service with the optimal number of employees. It also creates opportunities for up-selling and cross-selling. Workforce optimization techniques also automate many business processes and offer real-time guidance and actionable insights. This data helps create more revenue opportunities. 3. Improved customer service and retention As mentioned above, when you have optimized the workforce with the correct number of staff, you can offer excellent customer service. It enables companies to resolve customer queries efficiently and faster. This is how WFO helps provide a good customer experience. WFO solutions allow companies to analyze their communications with customers to understand the root cause of their behavior. It helps them to frame strategies that retain customers in the long run. When you know your customers and their behavior, you can act faster to service their needs. When you respond to customers’ complaints faster and offer them improved satisfaction, they are most likely to return. Now that you understand how beneficial it can be to optimize the workforce let’s discuss some critical workforce optimization strategies to implement at your workplace. 5 Workforce optimization strategies The strategies we picked are tested to be effective in any work environment. Whether your company is in IT or manufacturing, you can trust these techniques for a more streamlined workforce. 1. Scheduling employees efficiently For the success of any organization, it is essential to schedule employees efficiently . Companies rely on manual workforce scheduling , which is time-consuming, prone to errors, and too tedious for HR. Software solutions like Truein provide a highly cohesive and efficient time and attendance management system for companies that can be used for scheduling employees efficiently. When a company increases operations like production and manufacturing, the staff gets busy. It makes it challenging to manage a workforce. Overtime can be expensive, and so can be regular absenteeism. You can be left with stalled production or too much workforce without proper scheduling. Scheduling employees is one of the most impactful workforce optimization strategies to ensure that enough employees are available on the floor during every shift. It will also ensure that workload is distributed optimally. Truein face recognition attendance system can help schedule employees for manufacturing, supply chain, warehouse, and retail companies. Our technology is cloud-based and uses AI to manage staff timing to keep HR managers informed of the workforce attendance in real-time. Managers and supervisors can use the Truein dashboard to assign tasks, manage leaves , and create or update shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Time management and attendance tracking For a company, time is of the essence. It is the most valuable asset to manage as it cannot be replaced or regained. All tasks and business operations must be completed on time. Managers and supervisors must know what’s going on and where the employees are at a given time. Again, there are many ways to achieve this. Modern attendance software applications can track time and attendance most accurately. Truein is one such leave and attendance management system that companies across industries can use for their time management needs. If you are facing a tough time deciding if you need an attendance system for workforce optimization, then ask yourself these questions: Are your employees regular with attendance? Are there measures to prevent malpractices like buddy punching and time theft ? How easy and fast is taking time and attendance management decisions like attendance regularization? Think of the more incredible picture here. With a time and attendance management system like Truein, HR managers can look at the scheduling numbers for the entire workforce. It enables them to use analytics to ensure all shifts are adequately staffed, and employees are allotted tasks proportionately. 3. Monitor performance and Task completion The above two workforce optimization strategies help ensure that scheduling and time tracking is in place, but making employees punctual is not enough; you also have to optimize how they use their time during the shift. You can use task tracking tools like Salesforce, Asana, Trello, and Jira. This software as a service (SaaS) solution helps improve employee productivity by tracking their progress. Depending on your business requirements, you can pick a real-time task tracking tool to monitor performance to keep managers informed of a worker’s performance at work. Monitoring the performance of the workforce is essential, but it must not feel too invasive as it can stress employees. Task tracking tools are low-stress solutions to gauge the performance of the force. Managers can control an employee’s performance as they have access to insights like how they spend their time at work, whether they take longer than anticipated to complete tasks, and whether they are meeting their day-to-day responsibilities. This workforce optimization technique can help HR managers determine if someone is struggling at their job or if an employee performs better than their peers. It is an incredible improvement over old-school Excel spreadsheets for tracking workforce performance. 4. Improve communications between managers and employees Effective communication between employees and managers is required for workplace success. It should not only be limited to just the job requirement and assignments. Genuinely productive and collaborative teams also communicate about improving the job’s success. For workforce optimization, it is essential to create open channels of employee-manager communication to help understand the company’s direction, goals, visions, and values. It will help them identify their work responsibilities to add value to the company. Implementing tools like Trello and Jira add value to the employee-manager communication. With such workforce optimization practices, managers can measure an employee’s performance and productivity and take measures to help them overcome challenges and improve. Practical WFO tools help break down employees’ strengths and weaknesses such that they can be prioritized as per the assignments. Ultimately, these tools allow HR managers to measure the outputs of the workforce and successfully increase productivity. This is not even the best part of improving employee-manager communication. More importantly, it helps managers and workers know the status of a project and eliminates the need to track down the level of individual contributions. 5. Adopt Cost-Effective Operations Cutting costs doesn’t mean implementing cheaper solutions but instead identifying the sources of wasteful spending and processes that do not align with the company’s goals. When you create solutions to implement cost-effective operations, you make it possible to reallocate resources and streamline processes necessary for the business, such as customer satisfaction and retention. It will eventually improve revenues. How do you make operations cost-effective? Dissect the customer feedback data to understand how their experience can be improved. Pay attention to what’s working but analyzing what’s not working is equally important. Do not stick to customer service because of the status quo. Ditch old habits if they are not working anymore. Workforce optimization is about being honest while looking inward and making tough decisions to deliver results. If you find instances where workers aren’t meeting all of their numbers, it’s time to make some serious adjustments. Conclusion Workforce optimization is multiple factors working together to boost the company’s productivity and help employees perform at their best. It is not an overnight task, but successful workforce optimization requires time to work out processes and systems that will serve the purpose in the long run. The objective is to streamline operations and model a sleeker workforce that will save much money and other resources. We hope this guide will serve as the right resource to initiate work optimization strategies in your company to cut costs and improve efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Difference Between Workforce Management and Workforce Optimization Understand the Split Shift Schedule: Effective Strategies, Benefits and Challenges Streamlining Construction Workforce Management: Tools and Strategies for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					Rotating Shift – A Complete Guide Rotating Shift – A Complete Guide May 15, 2024 As a manager, an essential part of your job is to put the best schedule to allow workers to be more productive without overworking. But scheduling can get tricky when you move beyond the standard 9-to-5 work shift to accommodate increased demand. As the demand for production is increasing, and you need to make complex schedules, many things must be considered. If you cannot correctly schedule shifts , workers might complain. Poorly designed shifts can cost physical and mental pain to the employees. Also, a few absences can fail the entire shift without proper planning. HR managers need to learn about rotating shifts and how to prepare one effectively. In this article, we are about to discuss how to create a rotating shift schedule depending on the company’s nature of work. We will focus on tips on how you can create a rotational scheduling system that protects workers’ health and productivity and benefits your organization in the long run. Table of Contents What are Rotating Shifts? Why is a rotating shift required? How do rotating shifts work? 4 Different Types of Rotating Shifts 1. The Pitman Shift Schedule 2. The DuPont Shift Schedule 3. The 2-2-3-2-2-3 shift schedule 4. Southern swing schedule Rotating shift schedule examples Which industries use rotating shifts? Advantages of rotating shifts Disadvantages of rotating shifts How to handle rotating shifts effectively? Use Shift Scheduling Software Conclusion What are Rotating Shifts? Rotating shifts are simply schedules that regularly change over time. The most common example of rotating shifts is how workers work in the manufacturing industry in the country. Most production workers have rotating shifts in which they work six days a week between night and day shifts. In other sectors, such as construction and mining, workers work eight-hour shifts that rotate from 6 AM to 2 PM, 2 PM to 10 PM, and 10 PM to 6 AM. The workers switch between the shifts weekly, so they are not overworked, and the production continues without a break. Rotating shifts is supposed to help workers have a better work-life balance, but more often, it isolates them. An employee rotation schedule requires workers to reconfigure family responsibilities and reset sleep schedules, making it difficult to have a social life and connect with friends. This can lead to isolation and a lack of human connection. HR managers must be careful while creating rotating shift schedules as researchers suggest that poorly planned rotating shifts can cause severe mental and physical health risks such as weight gain, insomnia, depression, and anxiety. Given the magnitude of the dangers involved for workers working in a rotating shift, managers must do everything possible to ensure the safety and well-being of the employees. It is interesting to note that even with such risk associated with rotating shifts, a large workforce works in such schedules. According to a study by the Bureau of Labor Statistics , an estimated 2.4% of the working population works rotating shifts. Let’s examine rotating shifts’ ins and outs to understand why companies make employee rotation schedules. Why is a rotating shift required? For many businesses, it is vital to maintain 24-hour operations to deliver customer service. Industries such as transportation, manufacturing, hospitality, customer service, construction , etc., usually require staffing outside the traditional 9-to-5 schedule. These organizations rely on rotating shifts to meet their staffing demands. Rotating shifts are also required when employees need to be trained about different facets of the business. For instance, in manufacturing industries, employees might need to be prepared to work on the floor, do maintenance work, and if the situation requires operating CNC machines. Making them work through rotating shifts trains them in all these domains. How do rotating shifts work? A rotating schedule does imply changed shifts, but it is done cyclically. Your company can schedule a morning shift, an afternoon shift, an evening shift, and an overnight shift. You can create an employee rotation schedule to allow workers to work each shift over time so you can maintain business operations 24/7. A rotating schedule means that workers will work in a particular shift over a set amount of time. It depends on the business nature and preference of how workers are rotated through the shifts. Managers can decide how to make a rotating schedule – whether they want to put employees on a rotating schedule in which they work the same shift on different days (rotation of days), or they want employees to work in various shifts (rotation of time). Here it would be best if you remembered that the more cyclical the rotating shift would be, the easier it will be for employees to balance their work and personal life. 4 Different Types of Rotating Shifts Over the years, human resource professionals have created several types of rotating schedules. Depending on the management practice, your company can benefit from one or more types of rotating shifts. It’s a good idea for HR managers to familiarize themselves with several types of rotating shifts. This gives them a view to understand various styles of employee rotation schedules and choose one that best works for their organization. 1. The Pitman Shift Schedule In the Pitman shift schedule, the employees get every other weekend off to have time to participate in some family and social events during regular hours. Here the ships are 12 hours long and have four teams working in rotation. To avoid overworking the employees, the workers usually work no more than three days in a row. Here is an example of the Pitman shift schedule pattern: Two shifts on, followed by two days off Two shifts on, followed by three days off Three shifts on, followed by two days off When the two-week cycle is complete, workers switch timing; that is, the workers start working night shifts and vice versa. 2. The DuPont Shift Schedule Like the Pitman rotating shift, the DuPont shift schedule also involves four teams working 12-hour shifts, but the employee rotation schedule is a bit more complex. In DuPont, this shift rotates from day to night in a four-week cycle. Here’s an example: Four-night shifts, then three days off Three-day shifts, then one day off Three-night shifts, then three days off Four-day shifts, then seven days off Here you will notice that there are consecutive offs because the scheduling might be a bit hectic, but the DuPont system allows workers enough time to recharge by offering multiple days off. At the end of the cycle, these off culminate into a week-long break. Managers should be careful with the DuPont shift schedule. Here workers get more flexibility in their daily lives and spend more time with family and friends, but the trade-off is more demanding hours at work. It might suit some nation workers who don’t mind working extra hard instead of more time off. 3. The 2-2-3-2-2-3 shift schedule The 2-2-3-2-2-3 schedule is a rotating shift that follows a 28-day cycle. In this schedule, 12-hour shifts are rotated in the following pattern: Three-day shifts Two days off Two-day shifts Three days off Two-night shifts Two days off Three-night shifts Two days off Two-night shifts Three days off Two-day shifts Two days off The benefit of this rotating schedule is that worker gets frequent time off without having to work more than three consecutive days. Examples of the rotating shift schedule of this style can be found in the construction and healthcare industry, where employees have demanding 12-hour shifts followed by multiple days off. 4. Southern swing schedule The Southern swing rotation shift is a schedule that uses three eight-hour shifts throughout the month for four teams. Here is how this employee rotation schedule works: Seven-day shifts Two days off Seven-day shifts Two days off Seven-night shifts Three days off One of the most significant benefits of the Southern swing schedule is that workers have to work eight-hour and 10- or 12-hour shifts like other rotating shift schedule examples. Rotating shift schedule examples Managers are only limited by their imagination to configure rotating shifts. There can be hundreds of ways to manage employee rotation schedules. You can choose to schedule it from day to day, week to week, or month to month. However, the most common practice is to create a rotating shift schedule as eight-hour work shifts, 9 or 10-hour work shifts, and 12-hour work shifts. An eight-hour employee rotation schedule is the best for companies within staffing to create three teams that can work in rotating shifts. It allows companies to keep productivity high without compromising the health or ability of the workers. Managers can schedule eight-hour shifts in the following ways: Morning: 6 AM to 2 PM Evening: 2 PM to 10 PM Night: 10 PM to 6 AM Morning: 7 AM to 3 PM Evening: 3 PM to 11 PM Night: 11 PM to 7 AM Morning: 8 AM to 4 PM Evening: 4 PM to 12 AM Night: 12 AM to 8 AM For industries where workers must be on the floor for longer hours, 9- and 10-hour rotating shifts are good. Here there is an overlapping between two teams of workers so that the relieving team can hand over work to the reporting team in time. Here are some examples of 9 and 10-hour work shifts. Morning: 5 AM to 2 PM Afternoon: 12 PM to 9 PM Night: 7 PM to 5 AM Morning: 5 AM to 3 PM Afternoon: 1 PM to 11 PM Night: 10 PM to 8 AM The simplest to manage and schedule is the 12-hour rotation shift. You can schedule it as a day or night shift only. For example: Day: 6 AM to 6 PM Night: 6 PM to 6 AM Which industries use rotating shifts? Companies that require 24/7 staffing use rotating shifts to ensure that the business operations are running smoothly at all hours without overworking the workforce. Some of the common industries that implement rotating shifts are: 1. Manufacturing: Often, the manufacturing industries require workers such as assemblers and production managers to work shifts to increase output. Here is a complete guide on scheduling shifts in manufacturing . 2. Healthcare: Doctors, nurses, lab technicians, and hospital administrators are required to work in rotating shifts to ensure that medical care is available for patients around the clock. 3. Transportation: Logistics companies require employees to work in shifts to make their services available to the customers at all hours. 4. Retail employees: Sales and marketing staff at retail stores and 24/7 convenience stores often work on rotating shifts. 5. Hospitality: Hotels and resorts operate 24/7, and to offer undisruptive services and accommodate guests, hospitality employees follow rotating shift schedules. Here is a complete guide on creating 24 hour shift schedules . Advantages of rotating shifts Rotating shifts can benefit both companies and workers, provided managers know how to create rotating shift schedules that can positively boost productivity. There are several benefits of rotating shift schedule, including: Increased output productivity Unbiased and consistent sharing of unpopular shifts Efficient sharing of skill sets among various shifts Better interaction and relationship between employees working in different shifts Increased customer service and convenience Skill development of the employees as they perform additional tasks in extra shifts Increased business operations knowledge More variety in tasks keeps the workforce engaged Better work-life balance Disadvantages of rotating shifts Some workers prefer consistent fixed work schedules and plan their life around them. Putting such workers in rotating shifts disturb their lives. Keeping track of the rotating shifts and scheduling other tasks of the day needs regular attention. There are mental and physical impacts of working late shifts or frequent shift changes on workers’ health. Forced circadian rhythm changes due to night shifts can cause sleep deprivation and gastrointestinal and cardiovascular disorders. How to handle rotating shifts effectively? Rotating shifts are not a challenge for the workforce but managers as well. There are so many factors to consider. Most HR managers recommend that rather than the evening to day rotating shift schedule, turning shifts from day to evening to overnight is better. After a plan for the employee rotation schedule is made, it is essential to provide training to prepare workers for the rotating shift, such as going to bed early, taking power naps, frequent 5-minutes breaks, etc. Ask employees for their shift preferences and try to accommodate these requests whenever possible. Use Shift Scheduling Software It is challenging to keep track of rotating shift schedules as the changes are frequent, and you must keep track of all the employees. Therefore, it is required to use a shift scheduling software such as Truein that can help with shift management. Truein is a complete time and attendance system with shift management that makes it incredibly easy to maintain rotating shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Here are Truein’s advanced features that make shift scheduling a breeze. 1. Schedule Shifts Easily and Effectively Create effective schedules within minutes. The staff can view any changes or updates in the shift schedule through the app. 2. Allocate Shifts in Bulk or Individually Allocate shifts bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changing number of staff in each shift. 3. Auto Allotment of Shift Truein’s staff scheduling software enables shifts to get automatically allocated based on the In and Out time of the staff. No more manual staff scheduling. 4. Manage Multiple Shift Patterns Manage both rotating shifts and fixed shift patterns. Truein shift management software manages round-the-clock shifts. You can continue with a particular schedule for a week or month or choose a time frame as per your need. 5. Planned vs Actual Shift View Web dashboards for admins to access and manage all shift-related information, check which staff is working on which shift, compare Planned vs Actual Shift, and optimize workforce utilization. 6. Multiple Customizable Shift-Related Policies Set custom polices for early out, Late Entry, or Grace period based on in/out time. Admin approval required if staff clocks In after the grace period. Sign up for an absolutely free demo to explore how Truein can completely automate the shift scheduling process for your business. Sign up here. Conclusion For some companies rotating shifts is a necessary evil. Good managers can help eliminate employee shift rotation’s physical and mental side effects by adequately planning and scheduling shifts using software like Truein. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 15, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 15, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 15, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 15, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 15, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manufacturing Shift Schedules: A Complete Guide Effective Shift Management: A Complete Guide Shift Differential Pay: A Complete Guide for Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					5 Attendance Punching Machine Drawbacks and Better Alternatives 5 Attendance Punching Machine Drawbacks and Better Alternatives July 23, 2024 Manual attendance timesheets are open to time theft, but an attendance punching machine is no better. Every year, attendance fraud costs companies over 28,00,000 crore . According to Zaheer Hussain, an HR expert in India running a six sigma consultancy, “Several statistics indicate that three out of four people don’t always report time on their attendance sheet accurately.” As companies focus on their core business operations, keeping track of attendance fraud becomes difficult. Many companies replace attendance timesheets with attendance punching machines. However, these attendance systems have limitations too. Buddy punching is a typical time theft fraud committed when a company uses an attendance punching machine. A better alternative is to use biometric punching machines that use human biological attributes to identify and record attendance. If your company still relies on an employee attendance punching machine, it is high time you see a replacement. This article will explore the disadvantages of using an attendance punching machine and offer a reliable alternative. Table of Contents What is the attendance punching machine? How does an attendance punching machine work? 5 Drawbacks of using an attendance punching machine 1. Prone to time theft activities like buddy punching 2. The ongoing cost of time cards 3. Frequent data entry errors 4. Limited employee management features 5. The additional cost of installing hardware 3 Alternatives of Attendance Punching Machine 1. Fingerprint Attendance System 2. Iris-Based Attendance System 3. Face Recognition Based Attendance System Truein: A Worthy Alternative to Attendance Punching Machine What is the attendance punching machine? An attendance punching machine is a system designed to verify a person’s identity and record time in and time out. Most punching devices use employee ID cards to access the company facility and record attendance. These cards have information such as employee ID, employee name, and other unique identifiers to accurately identify the person. Attendance punching machines are hardware-dependent and require the installation of ad hoc units at every location. Attendance punching machines can have several variants, but biometric versions such as a fingerprint punching machine are the most commonly used. While the card punching machines are easy to manipulate as there is no biometric information of the person needed to identify the identity, anyone with an employee ID card can mark the attendance for the person. This is the practice of buddy punching. While biometric punching machines that use fingerprints, iris, and hand measurements can drastically reduce attendance frauds, but they are not hygienic. In the post-pandemic era, we need attendance machines that can record time without physical contacts, such as a face recognition attendance system . Furthermore, fingerprint biometric attendance systems are less efficient for industries like mining and manufacturing. In such industries, workers usually have their fingers smudged in oil, grease, dirt, and sweat. It hinders fingerprint sensors for identification. How does an attendance punching machine work? An attendance punching machine’s objective is to collect data and mark employee attendance based on rules defined within the system. Depending on the model of the machine, attendance is recorded along with time automatically. The sensors are at the core of the employee attendance punching machine that identifies the person based on the input (ID card, fingerprints, iris, voice, etc.). Card-reading attendance punching machines have sensors that read the data on the chip embedded within the employee ID cards. The chip stores employee ID and name data to enable the punching machine to identify the person and record their attendance. A biometric punching machine is much more sophisticated with sensitive sensors. For instance, a fingerprint punching machine works on two levels. First, it records the employee’s fingerprint when they put their finger on the sensor. Second, the input is compared with the fingerprint models previously enrolled in the machine. For companies involved in fieldwork such as construction, manufacturing, and mining, face recognition attendance systems are best because they help overcome the drawback of attendance punching machines that we will explore next. Most modern-day attendance systems have highly robust features to track attendance and offer leave and payroll management. 5 Drawbacks of using an attendance punching machine 1. Prone to time theft activities like buddy punching The simplicity of an attendance punching machine provides an opportunity to abuse the system easily. Taking advantage of the employee attendance punching machine, workers can ask a colleague to punch for them in case they are running late or won’t be arriving at all. When this happens, the company is paying for the work that the employee is not doing. Such time theft costs companies millions of dollars every year. The only way to prevent buddy punching is to monitor the attendance punching machine for employee clocks in or out. This can create a lot of overhead for the HR managers and can drastically increase the cost of doing business. 2. The ongoing cost of time cards Unlike modern attendance systems like a facial recognition biometric attendance system, attendance punching machines use time cards. Companies need to purchase time cards constantly. This cost might be insignificant for smaller companies, but this cost can be substantially high for larger companies. 3. Frequent data entry errors A significant drawback of an attendance punching machine is manual data migration to the payroll system. After all the time card data is collected and processed by the punching machine, it must be shared with the payroll software to calculate salary and leave. Usually, a large volume of data needs to be entered into the payroll system. This is why the chances of entry errors are too high. 4. Limited employee management features As the attendance punching machines only record and process time logs for the employees, they are useless beyond that. The lack of reporting and analytics features makes them unfit for employee management. Ability to track employee leaves over time, create schedules, share policies, etc., are essential features. 5. The additional cost of installing hardware As mentioned before, biometric punching machines are standalone Adhoc units; you must install the hardware at every point you want to record employee attendance. It is costly and unfeasible for fieldwork employees or large work floors where employees are scattered. It is also not possible for field workers to mark their attendance with these systems. They will be limited to recording attendance on timesheets and submitting them to their supervisors. 3 Alternatives of Attendance Punching Machine 1. Fingerprint Attendance System It is the most popular attendance system and it uses fingerprint data to record attendance. Many organizations rely on fingerprint attendance systems to manage their workforce as they offered better security and automation as compared to attendance punching machines. But like any other method, this is not foolproof. Older people who are involved in labour using their hands may not be able to get their fingerprints recognized every time. 2. Iris-Based Attendance System The iris-based attendance system is one of the most reliable personal identification methods in biometrics. It is an automated method of biometric identification that uses mathematical pattern-recognition techniques on video images of the irises of an individual eye. It is one of the most accurate attendance systems but it is very costly as compared to other biometric attendance systems . 3. Face Recognition Based Attendance System Facial recognition attendance systems are contactless technologies that allow for no physical interaction between man and machine. It uses facial recognition technology for identifying and verifying a person. The system uses advanced algorithms that can locate faces and identify them automatically, so there is no need for any human intervention. Facial recognition makes it easy to track employees’ time and is less expensive than other attendance systems. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein: A Worthy Alternative to Attendance Punching Machine Truein is a modern face recognition attendance system that uses AI to provide one of the most secure and versatile solutions. It is a cloud-based attendance system that is hardware-free. Employees can download the Truein app ( Android / iOS ) on their smartphones to mark their attendance. It gives the feature to record attendance through their phones. But the real benefit is for employers, as they can use the GPS attendance system to set geofencing and GPS rules for tracking employees when they mark their attendance. Truein offers a complete set of employee management tools such as leave management , attendance policy, overtime management, shift scheduling, and many more. Attendance punching machines are a tool of the past. As the evolution in the industry has made futuristic solutions like Truein. Schedule a free demo and see how upgrading from a old generation attendance punching machine can help to improve security, automation, and reliability. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why Automatic Scheduling Is Better Than Regular Scheduling? Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Regularization Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? In case your employee forgot to punch out (clock out) or your employee missed both in and out punch (clock in/out), then admins or managers can manually update their timesheets. It can be done in two ways Option 1: One by one You can regularize employee attendance timing as required in the following steps: Go to the ‘Day’ tab in the Web Dashboard and Select Date. Note: The date should always be a previous day’s date Search for the respective employee > Click on the three dots in the ‘Status’ column Select Regularize, Edit In Time/Edit Out Time as required and update accordingly. Option 2: Bulk update You can regularize attendance in bulk from Web Dashboard. Go to Alerts and Approvals, then Select Regularization Approval -> Bulk Employee Attendance Regularization. You need the download the sample excel file, Populate the below-mentioned details and Upload. Emp Id Clock In Date (YYYY-MM-DD) Clock In Time (HH:MM:SS) Clock Out Date (YYYY-MM-DD) Clock Out Time (HH:MM:SS) Once excel is uploaded, all the updates will be visible in the Timesheet as well as Reports. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? July 23, 2024 For the success of any business, employees must value time and discipline. This success is possible only when there are combined efforts of all the teams working towards a common goal. However, suppose your organization is struggling with late attendance issues. In that case, it is important to set strict guidelines and convey HR policy for late coming to employees. Attendance issues can cause companies a lot. According to the CDC, every year, companies lose $1,685 per employee due to attendance issues . Running a few minutes behind once in a while is common. It happens to most of us, but if it becomes a habit, it can significantly affect the company’s bottom line. As an HR professional, you must create a late-coming policy for employees. This article is for you if you are unfamiliar with creating a late-coming policy. We will discuss how to write a late-coming policy for employees that’s fair and easy to implement. Table of Contents What makes an excellent late coming at work policy? What must be there in the late-coming policy for employees? 1. Working time and days 2. Clearly state the consequences of late coming to work Late Coming Policy Template Late Coming Policy and Rules for Employees Official Reporting Hours Impact of Late Coming on Entitled Leaves Late / half-day attendance / full day leave: Salary Deduction for Late Coming How can you automate and manage the late-coming policy easily? Truein: A complete solution for leave management What makes an excellent late coming at work policy? Employees get late from time to time for several reasons. It would be unethical to punish them for reasons that are beyond their control. If a worker gets stuck in traffic, it must not attract an intervention from the HR department. Implementing an attendance late coming policy discourages the culture of regular late arrival at work. A well-defined late-coming policy ensures that employees are aware of the company’s stance against workers taking office timings lightly. It is crucial to set an example, so new employees are not encouraged to come late. Explain in the policy how the company management always accepts genuine reasons for being late but also does not tolerate employees taking the given privilege for granted causing trouble for other employees and shift schedules. The policy states that HR managers have the right to take the required course of action if employees do not adhere to the policy guidelines. What must be there in the late-coming policy for employees? Some crucial elements must be there in the late coming policy to help employees understand what constitutes late attendance and how the company deals with repeated late coming issues. Your company’s late coming attendance policy must include these: 1. Working time and days Employees must be aware of the shift timings. Clearly state what the official timings are. Working days of the week must be there as well as the lunch hours should be specified in the lunch break policy . Employees must be aware of when they will be considered late to work. It is essential to mention the timings that will be regarded as late. Such as, 30 minutes after the reporting hour will be considered late. 2. Clearly state the consequences of late coming to work Transparently mention how the company will deal with late coming. Employees must be aware of what consequences they can face for repeatedly being late to work. Include details on how leave adjustments will be made against late coming. Mention how salary deductions will be handled. The late-coming rules for employees should be specific and not ambiguous so they can easily understand and follow them. Train the HR managers to enforce the late-coming policy provisions wisely. They must pay attention to employees’ feedback about the policy or why they reported late to work. Here is a late-coming policy template that you can use. Modify it according to your company requirements and guidelines. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Late Coming Policy Template Late Coming Policy and Rules for Employees We have always appreciated the punctuality of our workforce and rewarded the same. Lately, it has been observed that several employees are repeatedly coming late to work. This has forced management to take action to ensure timely attendance. This late-coming policy states workers must follow the company’s office time and schedules. Official Reporting Hours The office timings are from 10 AM to 7 PM from Monday to Saturday. For the night shift, the official hours are from 8 PM to 3 AM. Lunch hour is of 30 minutes, from 1:30 PM to 2 PM. Impact of Late Coming on Entitled Leaves If a worker reports late for work for two days, one casual leave will be deducted from their annual quota. If a worker reports for work late more than three days in a month, one earned leave will be deducted. For fourth and fifth late coming for work, quarter-day leave shall be deducted. Half-day leave shall be deducted from the employee’s yearly quota for every next late coming. Late / half-day attendance / full day leave: Any worker reporting for work after 10:30 AM shall be considered late to work. If the time in the record for a worker is between 10:30 AM and 11: 30 AM, they shall be marked as half-day leave. Employees coming to work after 11:30 AM will be marked absent for the day. This will be considered unannounced leave and dealt with the same. Salary Deduction for Late Coming Any leave beyond two days within a month resulting from the above-detailed scenarios will be recorded as leave without pay. If an employee has used up all their available leaves and there is no leave balance to adjust, the extra leave resulting from the above scenarios will be considered leave without pay. The deductions for such leaves will be on a pro-rata salary basis within a particular month. Any request for reimbursements for extra deductions, if any, will be considered at the beginning of the next Calendar year. At the end of the calendar year, all the leaves deduction due to late coming will be balanced against the entitled leave quota. If there are any balance leaves, the amount for the same will be credited to their monthly salary at the beginning of the following calendar year. All the reimbursements will be as per the company’s late coming and leave policy, and management holds the right to make the final decisions on the matter. How can you automate and manage the late-coming policy easily? Leave management is one of the essential duties of HR managers. Manually maintaining timesheets for employees can create much overhead for managers. It also leaves scope for human error and timesheet fraud which results in erroneous compensations made to the employees. As a result, resentment against the management could build. There is an easy solution to prevent this scenario from becoming a reality. Automate your workforce attendance and leave management . Truein: A complete solution for leave management Truein is a face recognition attendance system powered by AI. It offers wholly automated attendance recording, eliminating any need for human intervention. It is one of the most accurate time-keeping solutions and helps managers and supervisors track late coming to work in real-time. With Truein, you can also create late-coming policies for your entire workforce. You can view the full image here . For the ease of payroll management, it integrates with most of the payroll software. With this time and attendance management system , a company can implement its HR policy for late coming effectively and transparently. Schedule a free demo today and know how Truein can automate you attendance tracking and leave management. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Time off Policy for Small Business: 6 Types & 5 Steps to Write a PTO Policy Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					How To Deal With Unauthorised Absence? How To Deal With Unauthorised Absence? July 23, 2024 A business has several components that must be managed to ensure operations run smoothly. The workforce is the core component, directly associated with productivity and output. What happens when your workers start showing up late or, take leave without permission? This behaviour must be dealt with in strategic planning as an unauthorised leave can severely impact a business economically and on operational terms. It is not easy for HR managers to decide how to deal with unauthorised absences as they occur unexpectedly, so any preemptive actions are difficult to take. In this article, we detail everything about unauthorised absence from work to understand the possible measures that can be taken to curb the practice. Table of Contents What does unauthorised absence mean? How to deal with unauthorised absence 1. Ensure that all employees are aware of the attendance policy 2. Try to contact the employee 3. Send a warning letter and initiate a disciplinary meeting 4. Invite them to a disciplinary meeting What disciplinary actions can you take for unauthorized absence from duty? What do I do when they come back to work? Conclusion What does unauthorised absence mean? An unauthorised absence is when an employee takes leave without providing any reason for their absence. If the worker fails to notify the supervisor or manager about their absence, such leave is unauthorised. There can be more than one version of absence without leave (AWOL). When a worker is absent and calls in to inform about the reason but mentions a reason that they are not permitted as per their employee contract, it is also considered unauthorised absenteeism. For instance, if an employee informs their manager about any personal appointments last-minute, an unplanned holiday, or any reason that HR managers deem unfit for an absence. That said, HR managers must be empathic towards permissible grounds for an employee’s absence, such as sickness or need to attend to dependants in an emergency. Poor weather conditions making it difficult to travel to work is also why sometimes employees cannot report to work. Given the sudden nature of these situations, HR managers must create clear policies as to when and under what circumstances unauthorised absence from duty disciplinary action is unnecessary. This will help supervisors to know when to take action against unauthorised absences. How to deal with unauthorised absence In the event of an unauthorised absence from work, there are several ways to deal with the situation. HR managers must be with reasonable attempts to contact the employee to ascertain the reason for the sudden unscheduled absence from work. Depending on the reply from the worker, appropriate action can be taken. Here’s how what can be done. 1. Ensure that all employees are aware of the attendance policy Prevention is better than cure, so you must take all necessary actions to prevent Unauthorized absence. The HR department’s responsibility is to prepare clear, concise, and easy-to-follow employment policies. The policies must clearly outline the company’s expectations around reporting an absence or asking for leave. Explicitly create sickness and holiday absence policies to make it easier for employees to know what the company expects from them in such scenarios. It must mention whom employees should contact if they need to leave urgently. Employees who understand the appropriate process for requesting leaves are less likely to commit mistakes. According to the company, mention in the policy what is termed as unauthorised leave. Also, give some examples as we provided above. Disciplinary actions that can be taken against unauthorised absence must also be clear. 2. Try to contact the employee If an employee doesn’t show up for work within the given time frame specified under the company’s attendance policy and is not authorised to leave, it is a valid reason to contact them. Managers can try reaching them over call and email. If there is no response, you can contact the emergency contact in case the employee is not notified and is not reachable. Once you have ensured there is no emergency; it makes appropriate grounds for dismissal for unauthorised absence from work. 3. Send a warning letter and initiate a disciplinary meeting If you cannot reach the concerned person through phone or email, after a certain number of days, and if you cannot contact their emergency contact too, you can send them a warning letter regarding their unauthorised absence. The warning letter must be an initiation for a meeting for unauthorised absence from duty disciplinary action. Ensure that you provide 48 hours’ notice to the person for the meeting. Here are some sample warning letter templates for unauthorised absence from work . 4. Invite them to a disciplinary meeting After a warning letter is delivered and they fail to attend the meeting, it is advisable to invite them for a second meeting. It is the right thing to do, and if they fail to follow the rescheduled meeting, do notify them that the meeting will go ahead regardless of their presence. Suppose the employee attends the disciplinary meeting and informs the reason which is viable and acceptable for unauthorised absence. In that case, you should tell them that such a thing will be added to their record if the behaviour is repeated. What disciplinary actions can you take for unauthorized absence from duty? It is highly unlikely that a single instance of unauthorised absence will result in disciplinary action. However, if the employee indulges in such behaviour regularly, they must be notified of a disciplinary procedure for misconduct. Next, you can hold formal meetings, issue written warning letters, and then proceed with dismissal actions. Check out some sample dismissal letters that you can utilize for unauthorised absence from work . What do I do when they come back to work? When the employees return to work after an unauthorised absence, it is necessary to investigate the reason for their undue absence. Ask them to explain why they were not present without notifying their supervisor or manager. Furthermore, they must clarify the reason for their absence. Depending on the reason, the HR managers should decide the consequences of unauthorised absence from work. If it is not a regular occurrence, reiterate the company’s stance against unauthorised leave and how it can affect their employment. Inform them that repeated failure to adhere to the company’s attendance policies can lead to strict disciplinary action. There might be circumstances when you are sceptical of the reasons provided by the employee, but you can’t categorically prove them false. For instance, if you heard an employee talking about what a great time they had at home on the same day they claimed to be unwell and took leave without informing the manager, don’t act. It would help if you gave the employee the benefit of the doubt as, without sound evidence, it is better to avoid confrontation. However, if they continue with the behaviour, even after a warning, initiate a disciplinary motion. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Unauthorised absenteeism must not be taken lightly. Such behaviour can wreak havoc on a company’s productivity and success in the long run. HR managers must create an attendance policy and inform employees about it. It is essential to have balanced policies to deal with unauthorised absence. Let workers know what makes a leave unauthorised and how it can warrant disciplinary action or result in termination from the job. leave and attendance management software like Truein can help automate the whole process of policy creation and sharing. You can view the full image here . It also provides unmatched leave management options like applying for leaves, leave approvals, adding different types of leave types, policies, and more. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to create attendance policies and manage attendance which can help to reduce unauthorised absenteeism in your organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs The Importance of Absence Management in the Workplace Employee Abscond: How to Deal with Employee Absconding Cases? Overstaffing: Causes, Consequences and 8 Ways To Deal With Over Staffing Problems Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					How To Make A Schedule For Employees How To Make A Schedule For Employees July 23, 2024 For any organization, employee scheduling is one of the core tasks. It is essential to ensure business operations are not affected and productivity is high. HR managers must know how to make a schedule for employees as it helps accurately anticipate staffing needs. It is also necessary to maximize productivity by scheduling correct shifts. Since the pandemic, companies are witnessing a flux in employee schedules as businesses need to account for health and safety while scheduling the workers. As capacity restrictions became a norm for businesses, shifts had to consider safety requirements. When you are faced with a situation like you suddenly have to operate with 50% of the workforce strength, you have to make a firm schedule for employees to ensure productivity and revenues are not hit. A combination of employee scheduling and strategic planning is required for any business to run smoothly. In this article, we are about to discuss how to create a schedule for employees that gives them flexibility without compromising revenues. Table of Contents What makes a great employee work schedule? How to make a schedule for employees 1. Plan what you need in the schedule ahead of time 2. Check old data and see the availability of staff 3. Create a list of employees who can work extra shifts 4. Follow local rules and regulations 5. Use scheduling software to automate the process 6. Publish it early and ask for changes 7. Give your employees the ability to change their schedule 8. Review employee schedule regularly Conclusion What makes a great employee work schedule? Before we discuss how to make a work schedule for employees, it is crucial to understand what makes a great employee work schedule. Certain qualities of an excellent schedule for employees are standard irrespective of the industry and the size of the business. Here are the features of a great employee work schedule: It fills every shift without leaving any significant gaps in the schedule, ensuring that the business operates around the clock without understaffing. It ensures that an appropriate number of workers are available in all shifts to complete the tasks. An excellent work schedule fills the needed positions. Ensures that managers can see where each employee’s schedule prevents accidental double shifting, that is, the same worker put in two shifts simultaneously. It is also mindful of the limitations of the workers and shows managers and supervisors all the information they need to know to not over-schedule or under-schedule employees. A quality employee schedule ensures each employee is working in the positions they are hired to do without any mixups. These are vital considerations you must remember when making a schedule for employees. Now let’s explore how to make a schedule for employees that can benefit your company and the workers equally. How to make a schedule for employees The tips we are about to share will help you steer clear of the common mistakes made while preparing a schedule for employees. A perfect work schedule maximizes efficiency and profits and keeps your staff happy. So, how to create a work schedule for employees that’s a win-win? Here’s how you do it. 1. Plan what you need in the schedule ahead of time When making a schedule for employees, anticipating and planning are the key. Checking the historical data ensures that an appropriate number of employees are available for the shifts when the production is high. Also consider leaves, holidays, weekends, and overtime to understand whether you will need more or less staff. It is a great way to conserve resources and save HR time that can be better invested in business growth and management. 2. Check old data and see the availability of staff Staff availability is necessary to make employee scheduling work. You must review the old data and compare it with present attendance data to know when an employee is typically available for work. It will also help you understand when a team prefers to be scheduled. You can allow workers to choose their regular shifts or create open shifts through a scheduling app like Truein. Truein helps managers to create shifts automatically based on the availability of the workers. It considers the leave data to ensure enough employees can fill the shifts’ positions. It also allows creating overtime shifts. Managers can create and share shift schedules directly with the team through the Truein app on their phones. You can avoid two major pitfalls when you ensure the staff’s availability. There is never understaffing affecting productivity or customer service. Also, never too many employees report for duty affecting the bottom line. 3. Create a list of employees who can work extra shifts Overtime scheduling is also an integral part of employee scheduling. While it is essential to know who is unavailable, you must also track who is available to work extra shifts. When you are already aware of who is available, it becomes easier to fill in the gaps whenever there are last-minute changes in the employee schedule. Employees who are available for the extra shifts are usually the people who appreciate the chance to make extra money. You don’t have to force workers who were not available to work overtime shifts. With this knowledge, you can prioritize your team’s scheduling preferences and make them happier, boosting retention. Creating and maintaining a list of employees and their availability makes a staff schedule efficient. It will also help if your planned schedule changes due to some emergency or a worker calling in sick. 4. Follow local rules and regulations Labour laws and local regulations must be considered when creating the employee schedule. The local laws and regulations can affect how to create an employee work schedule. It would help if you considered the federal, state, and local laws regarding staff scheduling, such as breaks, overtime scheduling, overtime pay, and leaves. For instance, in India, employers must pay workers double-pay for the additional hours if they work more than a certain number of hours a day. Some countries have laws restricting employers from scheduling shifts unexpectedly and imposing additional pay for late schedule changes. HR managers need to know the local rules and regulations regarding employee work schedules. 5. Use scheduling software to automate the process There are too many variables to consider to create a schedule for employees. Manually keeping track of all the variables is tedious and time-consuming. A better alternative is to use scheduling software. Time tracking and attendance tools like Truein offer scheduling capabilities that can automate the entire process. Truein is an AI-based facial recognition attendance system . It is designed to allow companies to track whether workers are working within the campus or on-site through GPS geofencing. Truein features employee time tracking, shift management and leave management that enables managers to monitor the availability of workers at all times. It also has the option to customize 70+ policies like the overtime policy , attendance policy, and leave management rules. Workers can record attendance, report availability, and check shift schedules directly from their smartphones. 6. Publish it early and ask for changes While predictive scheduling can help ensure the availability of the workers during shifts, it still needs planning. Also, it would help if you let employees know as early as possible about the shifts change. It is necessary to allow them enough time to adjust to the shift change. The work situations evolve constantly, but you have to ensure that you publish the schedule in advance, so workers have a chance to review and share their feedback. Truein allows HR managers and supervisors to keep scheduling information up to date and accessible for all workers. It allows them to check the schedule changes as soon as they are made and prevents any requirement for manual print or emailing schedules. Also, employees are automatically notified whenever schedule changes, ensuring they are aware of the change. 7. Give your employees the ability to change their schedule When you think about how to make a schedule for employees, you must consider the workers’ participation. It is a straightforward way to allow employees to access and change their schedules and make things much less stressful. As managers, when you allow participation of the employees in shift scheduling, you don’t have to worry much about whether shifts are covered or if there is some confusion. Workers can check and accept schedules on their own. You must set some ground rules when you allow employees to alter their schedules. For instance, employees should provide a 24-hour notice for nonemergency schedule changes. In an emergency, you can pick the staff from the list of available workers. This approach ensures workers feel in control of their time and are not stressing about unexpected or frequent schedule changes. Using applications like Truein is effortless as it allows managers to change and manage the worker’s shifts. As workers can access shift schedules through the Truein app on their phones, they can easily keep track of shift changes or notify supervisors about any discrepancies. 8. Review employee schedule regularly Often it is tempting to copy the schedule from the month or week before when no changes are expected. Businesses frequently change, so HR managers must review employee schedules regularly to ensure that they reflect the latest information and accommodate the needs of the work and employees. For example, when there is a change in production around a certain period, you will need to add it to the schedule to inform workers about it. You create a balanced employee work schedule with fairness, consistency, and flexibility. Effective scheduling not only increases the efficiency of the workforce but also reduces stress among workers. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion An employee work schedule is an essential requirement for any organization. We hope this guide explains all the requirements and considerations you must take to make a schedule for employees. Truein is an excellent tool for automating employee work schedules and it eliminates manual time tracking and leave management. Furthermore, it easily integrates with most payroll software making it easier to calculate salaries and expedite paychecks. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Handle Employees That Leave Work Without Permission 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Timesheet Reminder: How To Get Employees To Submit Timesheets On Time Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? July 23, 2024 Holidays are the time to rejoice with family and friends. However, it is uncertain for businesses as not all companies have the luxury of closing on holidays like Christmas, and Independence Day. The complication arises when you have to decide the holiday schedule and how the compensation should be decided for these days. Whether employees not working on holidays must be paid or those working on holidays should be given extra compensation are some of the complicated cautions regarding calculating holiday pay for hourly employees. As holiday pay is usually at the employer’s discretion, there is no one-fit-for-all solution to calculate holiday pay. To decide how much, if anything, to pay workers who work or don’t work on holidays, you must understand certain holiday pay calculation practices. This article will discuss what holiday pay is and how to calculate holiday pay for salaried employees and hourly workers. Table of Contents What is holiday pay? Who is eligible for holiday pay? How do you calculate holiday pay for hourly employees? The calculation of holiday pay for hourly employees How to calculate holiday pay for salaried employees? 4 Benefits of providing holiday pay to employees 1. Helps to increase productivity 2. Employees can work overtime 3. Employees will get paid on a day off 4. The reward for their work Conclusion What is holiday pay? While it sounds extraordinary, holiday pay is simply the compensation workers get for working or not working during public holidays. Many companies provide holiday pay as a gift to employees so they can take time off during holidays and spend it with their family and loved ones without losing pay. It is a gesture that directly affects employee satisfaction and the bond between employers and employees. It is also one of the motivations for retaining the workforce. Calculating holiday pay for hourly employees depends on the rules and regulations around holidays in the country of your business setup. In the United States, holiday pay is typically 1.5 times the worker’s average pay. It implies that the workers are paid the regular rate +1/2 of their standard rate for each work hour on holiday. Several private and public companies offer holiday bonus checks or paid time off during holidays. There are no laws in the United States that mandate that employees must be paid on holidays, but commonly employs a key one off with pay on the following holidays: Christmas Day Christmas Eve Easter Independence Day Labor Day Memorial Day New Year’s Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving (Black Friday) Public employers in the United States are required to observe the following ten federal holidays: New Year’s Day Martin Luther King Jr. Day George Washington’s birthday Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day According to a report from the Society for Human Resource Management, 96% of private employers provide holiday pay to their workers . In India, the holidays are declared under the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1981. Under this act, three mandatory national holidays with pay must be observed across all public and private sector companies. These are: 26th January (Republic Day) 15th August (Independence Day) 2nd October (Gandhi Jayanti) National and Festival Holiday Act rules the holiday pay rule applied by states locally. While the holidays declared under this act apply to government departments, banks, factories, and other establishments usually do not adopt the same. It is at the discretion of the employers to allow workers to take time off or pay them special compensation for all other holidays. Who is eligible for holiday pay? Holiday pay is unique because it usually doesn’t consider the worker’s employment status. Salaried and hourly paid employees who work on an annual or a local holiday are eligible for holiday pay. The onus is on HR managers to calculate holiday pay for salaried employees or hourly workers based on the company policies. While there is no provision to pay more than the regular pay rate to eligible employees, you should consider offering higher pay for certain holidays such as Independence Day, Christmas, and New Year’s Eve. Many companies offer unique benefits and incentives to employees on holiday pay such as bonus checks or paid time off. If your business has hourly employees, you can pay them the same as full-time employees, extending them the same benefits as salaried employees. The importance of holiday pay is that it’s a gesture of kindness towards employees. However, there can be exceptions. For example, the retail stores in India see a massive inflow of customers during special holidays such as Diwali, Holi, and Eid. These stores hire many hourly employees to meet the increased demand for service. It is not viable for them to offer additional compensation. In such a scenario, they can provide unique bonus gifts instead of worrying about calculating holiday pay for hourly employees. How do you calculate holiday pay for hourly employees? As mentioned above, the holiday pay is no different from employees’ regular pay, but there are exceptions depending on the company’s policies. 1. Overtime: If the employees work more than the regular hours during the holiday season, they are entitled to the same overtime pay as normal days. The overtime calculation is done as per the labor law. For instance, it is mandatory to pay employees double the average hourly pay rates for overtime hours in India. 2. 1.5 times pay: Though it is not a legal requirement, employees across the United States offer 1.5 times pay on certain holidays to reward employees for working on those days. Learn more about who qualified for time and a half and how it is calculated here . By incentivizing the holidays, the morale of the employees is boosted. 3. Double time pay: An employee is eligible for double time pay when the employee works over 40 hours in a work week. Under this, an employee is entitled to get paid twice the regular wage rate. Find more about how double time pay is calculated, when double-time pay rates are enforced here . 4. Bonuses: As an employer, you can choose to offer rewards during the holiday season to your employees. In India, offering paychecks and bonus gifts to employees during the Diwali holidays is a general practice. You can decide on bonuses based on years of service, base salary, or performance of the employees. The key takeaway here is that there are no special rules on laws that regulate holiday pay. The state and federal employment laws only decide the date that should be off. Calculating holiday pay for hourly or salaried employees is at the discretion of the employers. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account The calculation of holiday pay for hourly employees The calculation of the holiday pay is simple, depending on what things you offer to employees or casual workers to work on holidays. For instance, if you provide employees 1 ½ of the regular hourly rate, an employee working for $ 10 an hour would be paid $15 an hour for working on holidays. Similarly, you can adjust bonuses or special incentives into the pay for regular and hourly employees to do the calculation. Here is a Google Sheet that you can use to calculate the holiday pay for your employees. How you calculate holiday pay for hourly employees is entirely at your discretion, but automation software like Truein can typically handle all the calculations for you and expedite holiday payroll. Truein is an AI-powered facial recognition attendance system that also offers payroll reporting capabilities. It facilitates payroll calculation by allowing managers to account for overtime, work hours, weekly off, holidays, etc. Furthermore, companies can maintain different payment policies for salaried employees and hourly workers. Besides helping with payroll, it offers employee time tracking , leaves management , shift scheduling , and more. Retail stores can use Truein to track, monitor, and pay casual workers as it allows GPS-based attendance recording and geo-fencing. Stores can ensure that workers are paid for their hours when they work at the set schedule at the allotted store or venue by tracking their location in real-time. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to automate the attendance and payroll process. How to calculate holiday pay for salaried employees? As is the case for hourly employees, there is no specific law pertaining to holiday pay for salaried employees and is purely based on company policies. You should however make sure that employees aren’t working more than the total maximum hours mandated by your country/state. Employers can calculate the holiday pay of salaried employees as follows. Divide the yearly salary by 52. For example, if the yearly salary is 52,000, dividing it by 52 would give a weekly salary of $1000. If the employee is working for 8 hours a day for 5 days in a week, then that equates to 40 hours or $25 per hour. Discuss internally to determine a fair overtime hourly rate. In general, you can choose to pay 1.5 to 2 times the calculated hourly rate to incentivize employees working on holidays. Also it is a good practice to add this in the employment contract to avoid any potential complications. 4 Benefits of providing holiday pay to employees Holiday pay is an instrument of trust building and morale boosting between the employees and employers. It is a voluntary act of the organizations to show workers that they care about their comfort and happiness. Here are some of the most significant benefits of providing quality pay to workers. 1. Helps to increase productivity Compensating employees appropriately with the holiday pay can make them feel appreciated and valued. It effectively engages the workers and encourages them to work more, boosting the business’s productivity. Holiday pay offers one of the rare opportunities to incentivize employees to work more at the same time while building trust with them. It also benefits your employer’s brand and creates a good work environment. 2. Employees can work overtime It is not new that employees are not eager to work on holidays. Offering them holiday pay for additional incentives such as a 1.5 times rate is a great way to encourage them to work overtime as the payment is worth their time. It is more relevant for retail businesses that have to be open or do most of their business on holidays. The promise of extra pay is an excellent motivation for workers to work on holidays when most people choose not to work. Managers can fill in supervisors on calculating holiday pay for casual workers for the overtime on holidays. 3. Employees will get paid on a day off Paid holidays off constitute a significant morale boost for employees when they know they will be given days to rest without worrying about losing their wages. Holiday pay as paid time off has proven to lower stress levels, boost productivity, and improve workers’ mental health. It also benefits the business when workers are relaxed and happy about their employment. Paid time off during holidays shows goodwill and is a beneficial financial investment that employers can make to build the workers’ loyalty. 4. The reward for their work Gratitude is a character trait of great employers. By offering holiday pay, you reward the workers for their work on days when most people prefer not to work. It also makes parts of a company’s benefits to the workers to attract top talent. Often, employees look for the benefits offered before accepting an offer. Holiday pay is an additional motivator for employees to get your company’s job offerings. It shows that you care about your employees and their time, attracting strong job applicants. Conclusion When you create a policy on calculating holiday pay for hourly employees, you allow workers and managers to be clear about the company’s take on compensation for working on holidays. We hope this guide will help you avoid disgruntled employees or potential legal action and provide a reference for calculating holiday pay for salaried and hourly employees. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Fraud »  					What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? July 23, 2024 As a company, if you are still relying on paper timesheets on spreadsheets to manage employees’ time and attendance , you are opening yourself to timesheet fraud. When a business manages employees’ time manually, it is prone to inefficiencies, inaccuracies, and non-compliance with working time provisions. It is not uncommon for such businesses to have timesheet fraud problems. Companies lose not only vast sums but also productivity due to such activities. An apt example of how severe timesheet fraud consequences can be is Saba software. The company was charged with timesheet fraud crimes, and SEC directed it to pay $1.7million in fines . In this article, we will detail everything about timesheet fraud that you must be aware of. We will discuss ways to increase management controls and how to eradicate deliberate forgery. Table of Contents What is timesheet fraud? Is falsifying a timesheet a crime? What is the most common type of timesheet fraud? 1. Exaggerating work hours 2. Human error causing inaccuracies 3. Buddy Punching 4. Long breaks 5. Favouritism How to prevent timesheet fraud? 1. Check and approve the timesheet regularly 2. Install CCTV cameras to monitor employee activity 3. Switch to automated attendance systems Conclusion What is timesheet fraud? Timesheet fraud is when employees at organizations that allow them to enter information regarding attendance into timesheets intentionally manipulate the data. Most of these businesses have a culture of employees recording the clock in and clock out time manually. The HR managers confirm these records for their validity later on. However, this opens an opportunity for some employees to manipulate the information in the timesheets by exaggerating the data. Merely rounding up the attendance time to the next hour is a case of fraud. Such timesheet fraud cases might not look too alarming, but when these extra minutes are compounded, they buildup into hours or even days. It is the responsibility of HR managers to ensure that all workers put in accurate attendance information in timesheets. Inaccuracies in attendance data can cost your business much money without you even realizing its impact. It will help if you familiarise yourself with what timesheet fraud is to ensure that no such activity occurs in your organization. Is falsifying a timesheet a crime? Yes, there are legal provisions against timesheet fraud, which can lead to job loss or legal proceedings against the offenders. Companies can terminate the employment contract or file civil liability and criminal charges against employee padding hours. Companies must communicate the timesheet fraud consequences to the employees and mention them in their employee contracts. In some cases, employees getting paid for the hours they have not worked can be trialled as guilty of theft. In some countries, time theft by the employees is taken as defrauding. Companies have the right to press charges against workers who commit timesheet fraud or indulge in time theft activities. However, this approach can be expensive. A much more suitable option is to terminate the employment contract. What is the most common type of timesheet fraud? For HR managers, it is crucial to understand what constitutes a timesheet fraud. Sometimes employees can commit such frauds out of carelessness accidentally. When you know the different types of timesheet frauds, you can take the appropriate action. Here are some most common types of time fraud: 1. Exaggerating work hours The most common type of time fraud in companies that use hard copy timesheets is inflation of work hours. Employees can intentionally record incorrect arrival and leaving times. 2. Human error causing inaccuracies HR managers can commit mistakes when the data from manual timesheets are migrated to the payroll software. Here the intention is not to save time theft, but due to inaccurate attendance records, problems arise. Such inaccuracies increase with the number of times the data has to be copied or added manually. An easy solution to get rid of it is to use an automatic attendance system like Truein that easily integrates with the payroll software. 3. Buddy Punching When companies rely on outdated card punching attendance systems , they are prone to the practice of buddy punching . Here an employee puts in false arrival and leaving time on behalf of a colleague. Buddy punching is one of the most common types of timesheet fraud. 4. Long breaks Some employees can exploit the lunch breaks by taking longer time breaks than the allotted one. This practice can significantly affect the productivity within a team and the work culture of other employees who might be affected by such behaviour. Even unauthorized breaks during work hours are time theft. Many employees are often seen doing their personal work and lengthening their lunch/tea breaks. To avoid long lunch break you should create a employee lunch break policy for your organization. 5. Favouritism Unlike other types of time fraud, this is committed by managers and supervisors who tend to favour an employee over others. Favouritism is when managers or supervisors overlook absenteeism , lateness, or long breaks off an employee they like or share personal interests with. How to prevent timesheet fraud? There are several ways to curb the menace of timesheet fraud. The right solution depends on what type of fraud the organization faces. 1. Check and approve the timesheet regularly If your company cannot get rid of manual submission of timesheets, you can instil strict policies around timesheet management. Ask managers and supervisors to check and approve the timesheet regularly. Clearly define strict actions against the employees who will indulge in time theft activities. Such steps will encourage workers to record the accurate time promptly. Also, ensure that workers submit their timesheets without delay because the more time they take, the more prone they will be to commit mistakes. You are responsible for ensuring that shift schedules and workloads are optimized, so workers do not feel unnecessary pressure. If the timelines are unrealistic and shift schedules are too overbearing, workers might be forced to commit buddy punching. Review the shift schedule with employees to make it easy for them. 2. Install CCTV cameras to monitor employee activity It is advisable to install CCTV cameras to monitor employee activity on the floor. This will help in managing problems like long breaks and buddy punching. 3. Switch to automated attendance systems Adopting automated attendance systems can eliminate inaccuracies in attendance recording and curb activities such as buddy punching. While biometric attendance systems are standard, their performance and accuracy are not as efficient as modern AI-powered facial recognition attendance systems like Truein. Truein is a highly effective solution to prevent timesheet fraud as it uses facial recognition technology to mark attendance. There is no scope for exploiting the attendance system by clocking in inappropriately. Moreover, it eliminates the need to manually manage timesheets as it integrates with some of the most popular payroll systems. The employee attendance data is directly imported into the payroll software. It saves a lot of time for HR managers and reduces overhead expenses by promptly providing accurate labour data for the payroll calculation. It has robust scheduling, reporting, and leave management features that help companies manage business operations effectively, thus increasing their productivity. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Timesheet fraud can be a significant productivity issue and affect revenue if left unchecked. It is the responsibility of HR managers to prevent time fraud cases. If your company doesn’t have strict attendance policies or if there is a communication gap between managers and workers, it is essential to bridge the gap and clearly state the consequences of indulging in timesheet fraud activities. Thus, companies must take all the precautions necessary to prevent timesheet fraud before taking legal action against employees. We hope this guide will help. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide 4 Different Types Of Time Theft and 5 Ways To Prevent It? Ghost Employees: How To Prevent and Detect It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					Ghost Employees: How To Prevent and Detect It? Ghost Employees: How To Prevent and Detect It? July 23, 2024 It might be hard to imagine, but there are instances when companies pay for employees who do not exist in reality. It is like paying someone who doesn’t show up for work. That’s what happens with ghost employees. Ghost employee fraud usually happens at global companies with decentralized payroll processes. As these companies have to maintain payroll across countries that involve different currencies and tax implications, it is easier for them to fall victim to this type of payroll fraud . According to the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners , as many as 29% of large and small businesses globally are affected by ghost employee fraud. Ghost employees are the most difficult to detect of all the payroll frauds. The financial implication of ghost employees on payroll can be huge. For instance, the Indian Railways Department has to suffer a loss of USD 187,600 due to ghost employees. For HR managers, it is essential to know how to prevent ghosting employees. This article is all about dealing with ghost employee fraud. Table of Contents Ghost employee meaning How to detect and prevent ghost employees 1. Background checks for accounting employees 2. Maintain the records of employees accurately 3. Conduct routine audit to detect ghost employees 4. Clearly define procedures for payroll 5. Eliminate ghost workers menace using facial recognition 6. Incentivize existing employees to report ghost employment Conclusion Ghost employee meaning Ghost employee or ghost payroll is an essential concept for HR professionals. A ghost employee is a worker who exists on paper and is added to the company’s payroll to take a wage, even though the company does not employ them. Sometimes, it could be a deceased person who is not taken out from the payroll due to unawareness or accidentally. But in most scenarios, fictitious employees are added to the payroll to commit financial fraud. Whatever the reason, HR managers must ensure that their organization is not paying for the workers who do not exist. Now that you understand what ghost employees are, let’s look at common ways these employees exist within a company. The most common reason why ghost employees exist is that someone within the company adds them intending to commit fraud. Some employees can indulge in buddy punching marking attendance for workers on leave. Deceased employees or employees who left the job but still exist on the payroll. How to detect and prevent ghost employees For businesses suffering from ghost employee menace, there are specific ways to deal with the issue. HR managers must ensure that the employee management is not chaotic. Usually, unclear processes leave the scope for such frauds to occur. Given that for a large workforce, it is not easy to find ghost employees, this is why some essential steps are needed to prevent ghost employees. Large companies with hundreds of workers can track payroll budgets and investigate spikes in the report that does not match the labour projection. Smaller businesses can take a much simpler approach like hand-delivering paychecks to ensure only employees working get the pay. Any leftovers indicate ghost employee fraud. HR managers can bring in some provisions to prevent payroll fraud. Here are some steps to get started: Check on all workers before hiring with background checks Ensure that employee data in the payroll system is accurate and updated Avoid single-point-of-contact systems Use financial checks and balances audits 1. Background checks for accounting employees Companies should take extra measures to thoroughly evaluate employees with access to the payroll and accounting systems. Whether an entry-level accounts clerk or a CFO, background checks for these professionals are necessary. There are several ways to identify ghost employees. You can hire agencies for the job to audit the background of prospective employees before hiring them. 2. Maintain the records of employees accurately Whether new hires or existing employees, HR managers must ensure that their accurate and current data is in the payroll system. No new hires must be allowed to work until their information is collected, verified, and entered into the system. There must be strict policies to deal with employees who provide incorrect information or try to defraud the payroll system. 3. Conduct routine audit to detect ghost employees Hiring honest employees and ensuring accurate employee data will not be enough. To ensure that there are no ghost employees on the payroll, you must conduct routine financial audits. With audits, you can immediately find any mismatches or fraudulent activities. Not only fictitious employees, but regular audits can also help find duplicate entries, clerical errors, unverified government identification numbers, attendance recording inconsistencies, and more. While not all clerical mistakes are fraud, repeated mistakes can help you identify patterns, such as repetitive manual timekeeping adjustments. Or terminated employees are still kept as active in the payroll system. Smaller companies without well-defined human resource management systems can rely on self-audits; for a more complex organizational audit, you can hire consultants or third-party services. 4. Clearly define procedures for payroll If the company has clearly defined processes for payroll and accounting activities, there will be no opportunity for fraud. All employees must be trained to adhere to the methods and workflows decided. For instance, the HR department should maintain a checklist of worker information that must be entered into the system before their first work day. A similar list must be there for terminating an employee. Both processes ensure that all the employee data within the payroll system is accurate and updated. Usually, when employees are terminated or when they leave, if the information is not updated soon, it creates an opportunity for ghost employee fraud. 5. Eliminate ghost workers menace using facial recognition Human interference with attendance recording can be a hotspot for ghost employee fraud. To eliminate ghost workers you can use a facial recognition based automated attendance systems like Truein that eliminate manual attendance timesheets. Truein is a new-age face recognition attendance system that can integrate with most payroll software. It is designed to automate attendance and leave management . As it leaves no scope for time theft , buddy punching and manual errors when importing attendance data into the payroll system, it can be a reliable defence against ghost employees. Schedule a free demo today and see how it can be integrated with payroll software and can help to prevent ghosting of employees. 6. Incentivize existing employees to report ghost employment Offer a reward for any accurate and verifiable reports. This could be a cash prize or other incentives, such as additional time off or recognition at company-wide meetings. Another option is to establish a confidential reporting system, such as a hotline or anonymous online form, that allows employees to report any suspected ghost employment without fear of retribution. This can create a culture of transparency and integrity within the organization and encourage employees to speak up if they see any suspicious activity. Additionally, it may be helpful to provide employees with training and education on the importance of reporting ghost employment and the potential consequences of failing to do so. This can help employees understand the gravity of the issue and feel more inclined to speak up if they suspect any wrongdoing. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Ghost employees can haunt your profit margins for months and years without being detected. It is essential to be proactive and understand how to detect ghost employees before your organization’s productivity, and the bottom line is hurt. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 4 Different Types Of Time Theft and 5 Ways To Prevent It? What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail 13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail July 23, 2024 A leave policy is an integral part of HR management for companies. Employees must be aware of their paid leave days and other holidays. Most candidates ask about the type of leaves they will get during the recruitment phase. Your organization’s leave policy matters so companies should have a detailed leave policy. The types of work leaves availed by the employees in the company also set an impression on your employer. This article will discuss the most common types of leaves a company must provide to employees to retain and recruit talent. Table of Contents What information must be there in a company's leave policy? 1. Privilege Leave/Earned Leave/Annual Leave 2. Casual leave 3. Sick leave 4. Maternity leave 5. Paternity leaves 6. Marriage leave 7. Sabbatical Leave 8. Bereavement leave 9. Half-day leave 10. Loss of Pay Leave 11. Compensatory Off 12. Public holidays 13. Menstruation Leave State-specific different types of leaves in India Types of Leaves As Per Different Labour laws in India Conclusion What information must be there in a company's leave policy? A leave policy must have detailed information on the number of leaves employees are entitled to. It must also mention the types of absence leaves they are eligible for and how to apply for the leaves. HR managers must maintain a leave policy for the company because it ensures employees will get essential time off to go on vacations, recover from illness, take care of any issues or take a sabbatical when needed. If you are unaware of what types of leave to include in the policy, this article will guide you through it. 1. Privilege Leave/Earned Leave/Annual Leave A privilege or earned leave is the annual leave for the employees working for a company within a year. While the norm in the country is to offer 18 earned leaves, the number of privilege leaves varies across the organizations. If workers want to use their privilege leaves, they need to get formal approval from their managers in advance. Usually, unauthorized absences are adjusted against privilege leaves. Employees are most motivated by the earned leave mentioned in their contract because such annual leave can be encashed if they do not use them throughout the year. 2. Casual leave Casual leave is the most common type of leave workers ask for vacation, rest, family events, and taking time off to relax and unwind. Every employee is entitled to casual leaves for a proper work-life balance. As employees must be able to have a life outside work, they need time off to travel, attend events, participate in life events and spend more time with family. Casual leaves are essential to offer workers enough time to focus and prioritize life when required. This makes them appreciate the company and feel comfortable working with such employers. In India, most companies offer one to two casual leaves a month. The quantum varies from state to state, and there is no legal provision on the number of casual leaves. Still, most companies provide 8 to 15 casual leaves in a year. Generally, workers cannot club casual leave with another type of leave, and they can neither be cashed nor carried forward. 3. Sick leave Sick leave is the time off provided for employees to recover from an illness or if they get injured and need time for healing. Companies must offer sick leaves for employees to enable them to take time off in case of health and well-being needs without losing pay. Depending on your country of operation, the requirement and provisions around sick leaves might differ, so it is essential to consult with lawmakers on the same. Companies must give their workers 15 days of sick leave in India in a year. However, it is only the minimum, and companies must be flexible with the number of sick leaves they allow employees in case of severe health issues. 4. Maternity leave Working women often face family planning challenges as they take a sabbatical from work, which might affect their careers. To ensure the joy of motherhood is not dimmed, companies offer maternity leaves. In India, the law gives women the right to take six months of maternity to manage their pregnancy and postpartum. As per the Maternity Benefit Act, 1961 , women can also take maternity leave in case of miscarriage or abortion. The duration of maternity leave offered varies depending on the employer; usually, among all the types of leaves for employees, maternity leaves provide the most extended break. As per the law, women employees can extend their maternity leave for up to 16 months without termination. However, it is at the company’s sole discretion to decide how many days of this duration will be unpaid. 5. Paternity leaves As women get maternity leave, male workers are entitled to paternity leave. Soon to becoming parents, male employees can ask for paternity leave during the final days of pregnancy or immediately after the baby’s arrival. Paternity leave is still not common in private companies, but some reputed companies such as Google, Microsoft, and IBM offer paternity leave in India. As company policies regarding paternity leaves differ across the organizations, it is essential to check your company’s leave policy to know if they offer paternity leave. 6. Marriage leave As the title suggests, this type of leave allows employees to get paid when they get married. Some companies even provide such leaves in case of marriage in the family. It is one of the most common types of leaves available by the company employees to attend a family function or be part of one. 7. Sabbatical Leave To allow employees enough time to upskill and sharpen their knowledge or to prepare for an upcoming project, certain types of leave are offered, known as sabbatical leave. Employees need sabbatical leave to contribute to the organization and help improve its operation. Employees can ask for a sabbatical leave if they want to invest time in education advancement, career break, or deal with family/health crises. However, unlike other types of work leaves, there is no legal provision around these. Also, sabbatical leaves are not approved immediately, so employees need to plan them. 8. Bereavement leave In the unfortunate event of the demise of a family member, employees are entitled to take bereavement leaves. As no laws are making it mandatory to offer such leaves, most companies provide bereavement leaves on the ground of compassion. Among different types of leave, this concept is still new in India but a much-needed one. Employees need time to grieve, participate in last rites or handle other legal situations after death in the family, and bereavement leaves allow them to do so without losing pay. 9. Half-day leave When the employees take a half-day off, either the first or second half, it is termed half-day leave. Generally, workers take half-day leaves to take care of minor responsibilities like a doctor’s appointment, attending a PTM or going to the bank. This offers them an outstanding work-life balance as they can take care of personal and professional responsibilities. 10. Loss of Pay Leave Also known as unpaid leave, loss of pay leave is when an employee takes leave after all their unpaid leaves are over, and it doesn’t fall under any particular category. Employees can still take leave, but the company will deduct the payment for the day. 11. Compensatory Off Compensatory offs or comp-offs are provided to employees when they work on non-working days such as weekends to complete their assignments or do extra work. Comp-offs are a gesture to appreciate their extra hard work and contribution to the company. 12. Public holidays Every country has designated mandatory public holidays. Events like Independence Day, Republic Day, Diwali, Holi, October 2nd, etc., are public holidays in India. Companies are obliged to let employees take off these days. 13. Menstruation Leave Some progressing companies allow women employees menstruation leave to enable them to manage the increased requirement for hygiene during the period. While not common in India, some of the largest companies offer menstruation leave to their employees, such as Swiggy, Zomato, and Byjus. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account State-specific different types of leaves in India While the Factories Act 1948 sets the general guidelines for leave policy in India, there are also specific state-specific laws. Here’s a glimpse of the types of leaves as per each state: Types of Leaves As Per Different Labour laws in India Sl. No. Act Type of leave Entitlement No. of leaves Carry Forward 1 Factories Act, 1948 Earned Leave Completing 240 days work One leave for every 20 days work 30 days 2 West Bengal Shops and Establishment Act Earned Leave A year of work 14 days 28 days Sick Leave From joining date 14 days (Half pay) 56 days Casual Leave From joining date 10 days Cannot be accumulated 3 Bihar Shops & Establishment Act And Jharkhand S&E Act Earned Leave 240 work days the previous year One leave for 20 days of working 45 days Sick Leave From joining date 12 days (Half pay) NA Casual Leave From joining date 12 days NA 5 Delhi S&E Act Privilege Leave 5 days for every 4 months for permanent employees 15 days 45 days Sick Leave/ Casual Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days NA 6 Andhra Pradesh S&E Act Privilege Leave Completing 240 days work 15 days 60 days Sick Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days Casual Leave 1 day for every 1 month of employment 12 days Special Casual Leave Once after completing 2 years in service 6 days NA 7 Karnataka S&E Act Earned Leave 240 work days the previous year 1 every 20 work days 30 days 240 work days the previous year 1 every 20 work days 40 days Sick Leave From joining date 12 days 8 Kerala S&E Act Annual Leave After complete a year in service 12 days 24 days Sick Leave From the joining date 12 days NA Casual Leave From the joining date 12 days NA Special Casual Leave After an operation or surgery 6 days for men and 14 days for females NA 9 Bombay S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year 21 days for every 60 days of work 42 days 10 Orissa S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year For Adult:- 1 day for every 20 days worked For Child:- 1 day for every 15 days worked 30 days for adults and 40 days for child Sick Leave From joining date 15 days NA 11 Rajasthan S&E Act Annual Leave 240 work days the previous year For Adult:- 1 day for every 12 days worked For Child:- 1 day for every 15 days worked 30 days for adult and 40 days for child 12 Tamil Nadu S&E Act Privilege Leave A year in service One every month 24 days Sick Leave Join Date 12 days NA Casual Leave Join Date 12 days NA 13 Uttar Pradesh S&E Act Earned Leave A year in service 15 days 45 days Sick Leave After six months in service 15 days NA Casual Leave After 6 months in service 10 days NA 14 Punjab S&E Act Earned Leave After 20 days of continuous employment One in 20 days 30 days Sick Leave Joining date 7 days NA Casual Leave Joining Date 7 days NA Conclusion Every company must have a clear leave policy detailing the types of leaves provided for employees. However, the diversity of the leaves can be hard to handle in absence of a leave and attendance management system like Truein. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition attendance system that provides end-to-end leave management for HR teams to view, update, assign, approve, and deduct leaves. It also readily integrates with most payroll software making it much easier to adjust salary according to leaves taken. Schedule a free demo today and see Truein attendance and leave management software in action. Discover HR’s guide to employee leave management . Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? July 23, 2024 As businesses are getting more competitive than ever, managing time better is one advantage that can boost productivity. The more your workforce is managed, the more work gets done, and you can increase profits faster. Employee time tracking is one way to manage the workforce for maximum productivity. You are missing several benefits if your company is not tracking employee time. Table of Contents What is employee time tracking? 8 Benefits of employee time tracking 1. Helps to increase staff productivity 2. Bill clients for the exact work that has been done 3. Track time across different devices 4. Review employee performance 5. Accurately report hours 6. Prevents employee burnout 7. Automate payroll process 8. Easy calculation of employee overtime What are the different ways to track employee time? 1. Paper timesheets 2. Excel timesheets 3. Time tracking software Truein: The Ultimate Time Tracking Software Conclusion What is employee time tracking? Time tracking is the process of keeping track of the number of hours employees work so they can be paid accurately at the end of their payment cycle. The benefits of employee time tracking are not just for the workforce, but employers also get meaningful insights that help them track and eradicate malpractices like time theft , excessive overtime, and regular absenteeism . There are many more reasons to ensure your organization has accurate employee time tracking arrangements. Let’s take a closer look at some of these benefits. 8 Benefits of employee time tracking 1. Helps to increase staff productivity It is common to find employees working casually even when a deadline looms. Also, when employees are not encouraged or motivated enough with a sense of urgency to deliver, there can be a severe lapse in company productivity. What might seem like your employees are slacking off might be an unorganized workforce in the absence of time tracking. Scheduling and work allotment issues can arise without employee time tracking. Employees take ownership of their workload by tracking their time; they are much more organized. Time tracking helps them identify how long they take to complete a particular task. It also helps them gauge their performance. Overall, with employee time tracking, you can help boost employee productivity. 2. Bill clients for the exact work that has been done When you track time for employees, you are in a better position to bill clients for the actual work that has been done. Estimated invoices for work done aren’t the same as an accurate log. You can’t bill clients accurately if you are not using tools for employee time tracking. Missed minutes can accumulate to severe losses. For instance, if a job takes 20 minutes longer than estimated and your company completes ten assignments weekly, you are missing 170 billable hours every year. By accurately timing, you will get the revenue you deserve. 3. Track time across different devices One of the benefits of time tracking software is that you can maintain consistent time keeping across multiple devices. For companies where workers are distributed over a larger area like mining and construction, keeping track of employees with a single machine is difficult. Cloud-based employee time tracking apps like Truein help workers accurately record attendance and work hours irrespective of location. 4. Review employee performance Reviewing employee performance is necessary to ensure that their performance is not lacking. When HR managers have to conduct annual performance reviews, the data from employee time tracking is a great reference source. It is easier to compare an employee’s performance to other employees. Such analysis can help employees to evaluate their performance. If they are inconsistent with their attendance, they can be warned with evidence. 5. Accurately report hours Companies must abide by the labor laws and compliance provisions to ensure workers are not exploited. For HR managers, it can be a tedious task to compile the report at the end of each month or quarter to share with management. But if the employee time tracking is done accurately, it’s infinitely easier for managers to create a report. One of the benefits of time tracking software is that it allows you to create reports periodically and automatically. With employment time tracking, compliance can be done in minutes. 6. Prevents employee burnout Without proper employee time tracking, it will be hard to schedule shifts or to identify if any worker is overextending themselves by working too many shifts. If HR managers create a too hectic schedule, they can burn out the workers. It can negatively impact productivity and can disturb the work-life balance of employees. One of the benefits of employee time tracking is that it can create a great working culture that allows employees to balance their well-being. With time tracking and shift scheduling software , managers and supervisors can know when and where employees are working and what tasks are being assigned. 7. Automate payroll process Payroll calculation is essential to pay employees accurately. With employee time tracking, it is easier to monitor the number of hours an employee has worked at the end of the pay cycle. Companies with a large workforce can imply cost savings in payroll management. Erroneous paychecks are an additional overhead for the managers to correct. It also affects your employer’s brand negatively. 8. Easy calculation of employee overtime According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), unless exempt, employees working over 40 hours in a workweek must be paid overtime at a rate not less than time and one-half their regular rates of pay. Also, as per Indian law, companies must pay twice the average pay rate to workers for overtime hours. If you are not tracking overtime accurately, you will have a substantial financial burden that can affect your profits. With accurate time tracking, overtime can be managed, and you can ensure no worker exploits overtime policies within the company. There are several benefits of tracking employee time, but how do you track time efficiently? Let’s see the common ways to track employee time. What are the different ways to track employee time? 1. Paper timesheets The most traditional way of timekeeping in companies is paper timesheets. It is a simple format sheet with a table with the Date, Day, Time-in, and Time-out fields. While paper timesheets are easy to create, they are not sustainable when managing a large workforce. Furthermore, managers are forced to calculate the work hours manually, which is prone to errors. It results in inaccurate pay that can hamper employee morale. 2. Excel timesheets These are similar to paper timesheets used to track the punching time of the workers, the only difference being that these time sheets are created with the help of software. While Excel timesheets offer a level of automation for calculation, they are still complicated to manage. All the data must be entered manually, which takes a lot of time. The chances of human error are higher. Also, you cannot create productivity reports using Excel timesheets automatically. 3. Time tracking software The best tool for employee time tracking is time and attendance management software . With the help of these tools, you can entirely automate workforce, schedule, and payroll management. When you use time tracking software, managers and supervisors don’t have to waste hours or even days managing timesheets and conducting payroll. These tools include additional features such as automated report generation, shift scheduling, invoicing, etc. Truein: The Ultimate Time Tracking Software Truein is one of the most comprehensively created AI-powered facial recognition time clock software used by several companies across industries. It is a cloud-based time tracking and attendance software that allows companies to track employee times accurately. It also features overtime tracking that ensures workers are paid only for their work hours. Furthermore, it provides a geofencing attendance app for onsite workers to ensure they are at the destined place when they record the attendance. You can create overtime work policies within the software and enforce them for employees. This ensures that there is an even distribution of work between employees. The software manages employee attendance, overtime, and leave data within a centralized database that managers can access at any time to create accurate reports. Truein easily integrates with most of the payroll software that companies use. This allows seamless automation of payroll management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope this article informed you of the benefits of employee time tracking effectively. For any company, employees are an essential resource. Employee time tracking can ensure that workers are rewarded for their work ethics and performance. It also adds to your employer’s brand when workers are paid accurately on time. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Employee Performance Metrics: 16 Types of Employee Performance Indicators and Benefits What Is Employee Self-Service, How It Works and What Are The Benefits? Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers July 23, 2024 In every industry, employee time tracking is a norm. It is a way to decide the workforce’s productivity and ensure that employees are paid accurately for their work. However, employee time tracking is difficult in the construction industry as workers are spread across construction sites. In the construction industry, workforce management is complicated as not all workers can be trusted to show up for work or honestly record their attendance. Contractors and supervisors use construction timesheet templates to manage how workers spend their time at the job. This guide details everything about the construction timesheet template and its benefits and drawbacks. We will also explore how to automate construction timesheet keeping. Table of Contents What is a construction timesheet? Why do you need a construction timesheet? 1. To track the hourly pay of employees 2. For tracking historical work log 3. To be compliant with the government laws 4. For automating the payroll process How do you maintain construction timesheets? Download Free Excel Construction Timesheet Templates (Daily, Weekly, Bi-Weekly & Monthly) Disadvantages of using manual timesheet in construction 1. Discrepancies between actual working time and reported times 2. Not easy to track and schedule employees 3. Lack of productivity and lots of manual work 4. No way to automate and directly calculate pay and overtime Truein: A better alternative to manual construction timesheet What is a construction timesheet? A construction timesheet or time card is a manual timesheet used for recording the working time of contractors and construction employees to calculate the number of hours worked and payroll. A construction timesheet template records the task performed, employees punching time, and billing costs. Timesheets have been used in the construction industry for decades. These are excellent tools for tracking time, work, and payroll in any industry. The flexibility in the schedules is unique to the construction employees and contractors. Contractor timesheets are one of the best ways of employee time tracking in the construction industry. While you can download a contractor timesheet template free online, it is essential to understand how to use a construction timesheet for maximum productivity. But before that, let’s understand how a construction timesheet template is unique from traditional timesheets. First, construction timesheets record the start and end times for every activity instead of an exact number of work hours. Second, the work structure of the construction timesheet template is highly customizable lists because, unlike traditional client project tasks structure, the nature of construction work is different. Third, the construction timesheets use construction cost codes instead of actual task names as in traditional timesheets. Another distinguishing factor is that a contractor timesheet template is made around work and billing rates. As in the construction industry, profitability is the key metric instead of productivity; it is why construction timesheets are built to calculate costs and profits. Why do you need a construction timesheet? Construction timesheets provide a structure for a largely unorganized onsite workforce in the construction industry. Although construction workers deem timesheets as tedious and a way for their owners to micromanage them, in reality, construction timesheets can help expedite the payment process and ensure construction workers are paid accurately. Since many companies also use contractor weekly timesheet templates to appreciate hard workers, they serve as a performance review tool as well. Some companies also opt for construction time-tracking software Here are some significant reasons you need a construction timesheet template. 1. To track the hourly pay of employees Employee time tracking provides transparency throughout the construction business, and a project can be managed much more efficiently. When workers are honest and record their work time accurately, owners and managers can view how many hours they worked, more accurately. It provides valuable data to track employees’ hourly pay and precisely how much to pay them. The data is also helpful in giving feedback to the workers on their performance and helping them improve. 2. For tracking historical work log Using construction timesheet templates, owners and contractors can track the historical work log, giving them a better idea of the actual cost of a job. It allows them to be much more efficient in forecasting the estimates of future jobs. A historical work log also helps to understand the nature of the job if it’s similar to an old project. It helps reduce overall profit losses due to underbidding on future projects and assists in securing future jobs by avoiding overbidding. Timesheets are valuable resources for construction business management. 3. To be compliant with the government laws In the construction industry, workers are often exploited by long work hours without pay. Construction timesheets ensure that the construction business is compliant with government laws. You can ensure that you are paying labor accurately for their work hours. Additionally, you can use construction labor scheduling software to ensure compliance with regulations. It also helps to comply with the overtime rule and ensures workers are not forced to work beyond their shifts. Compliance is necessary for a business because it enables them to be on the law’s good side and create a healthy work environment for the employees. 4. For automating the payroll process Construction timesheets eliminate the guesswork from the payroll process. When you have accurate data on the hours worked and how many workers worked on the task, it becomes easier to bill and pay. The entire billing process can be expedited, and payroll systems become much more accurate. Using a time and attendance software like Truein , you can entirely automate the payroll process and drastically minimize the scope for human errors. Such tools allowed to import the timesheet data into the payroll software and automatically calculate billable hours by accurately converting minutes into hours. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How do you maintain construction timesheets? To maintain a construction timesheet, you can use Google Sheets, Excel, or any other data-keeping application. Paper timesheets are more straightforward but are not as efficient as the free construction timesheet template we share. We have created four formats of Excel construction timesheet templates that you can download and use without any modification. A construction timesheet records the Date, Day, Task, Time in, and Time out data. While the construction daily timesheet template is the easiest to manage, the construction weekly timesheet template has an additional field to record the day. Bi-weekly and monthly construction timesheet templates are just an iteration of monthly templates for two and four weeks. Download Free Excel Construction Timesheet Templates (Daily, Weekly, Bi-Weekly & Monthly) Using our free Excel timesheet template, efficiently track and manage labor and project hours . Click on the links to get started. Free construction daily timesheet template Free construction weekly timesheet template Free contractor biweekly timesheet template Free contractor monthly timesheet template Disadvantages of using manual timesheet in construction While a free construction timesheet template provides an efficient way to manage the workforce and payroll, it is also prone to human errors. As manual timesheet keeping entirely depends on the honesty of the workers and contractors, there is scope for manipulation and time theft . Paper timesheets are a logistical nightmare and can be easily misplaced. Due to severe disadvantages, a manual timesheet in the construction industry is not advised. Here are some of the common disadvantages of manual construction timesheets. 1. Discrepancies between actual working time and reported times Manual construction timesheets are susceptible to time theft. Workers can easily record the wrong clock in or clock out time without being noticed. There is no way to discover the discrepancy until it’s too late, and the project gets delayed because of time theft. Workers can also participate in buddy punching ; that is, a worker can ask his colleague to record time in his absence and report to work late and still get paid for a complete shift. The construction industry loses billions of dollars to time theft every year. 2. Not easy to track and schedule employees Timesheets are just a piece of paper that cannot be used to make shift scheduling decisions or to track employees. Manual construction timesheets result in poor efficiency in workforce management. The construction industry often struggles with tracking employees working at remote sites. Without centralized data, it is not easy to track or schedule employees. 3. Lack of productivity and lots of manual work Building on the point above, manual construction timesheets have no scope for automation. Managers and owners must go through a lot of manual work to calculate billable hours and set shift schedules. Such manual workforce management leads to work productivity. It can take hours or even days to conduct payroll or set schedules when all the data has to be compiled and sorted manually. 4. No way to automate and directly calculate pay and overtime Without any automation, there is no way to integrate the data from manual construction timesheets into the payroll software. All the calculations must be done manually to calculate pay and overtime. The task is not only mammoth and cumbersome; it often results in frequent human errors that require correction. It also results in inaccurate paychecks. Truein: A better alternative to manual construction timesheet The construction industry has also benefited from adopting automation like other industries. construction time and attendance software like Truein make it easier to accurately manage the workforce and pay them. Truein is an AI-based facial recognition employee time tracking and attendance software used by some of the biggest companies in the construction industry. It offers accurate time tracking for construction workers based on GPS tracking and geofencing. Workers can download the Truein app on their smartphones to record attendance accurately. This eliminates the requirement of additional hardware or paper timesheets at the construction site. By accessing the GPS within their phones, Truein can track the workers’ location accurately and ensure they are at the site where they are supposed to be when they record the attendance. Furthermore, it easily integrates with all popular payroll software, automating time tracking and payroll process. We hope you understand the essential construction timesheets and how you can automate the process with Truein. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Effective Attendance Management: Utilizing Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software Managing Seasonal/Temporary Workers in Construction: Best Practices for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? July 23, 2024 Paying employees accurately and on time is necessary for a business of any size. It also constitutes a major part of attendance keeping. HR managers are responsible for meticulously streamlining the payroll process. Automatic attendance systems like Truein enable businesses to simplify payroll and automate workforce management, but many companies still rely on traditional attendance-keeping methods. This usually involves manually tracking employee timesheets, calculating overtime hours, and converting minutes to hours before the salary can be calculated. Such an approach uses valuable time and too many resources to ensure company policies are followed and workers are paid correctly. Systems like employee time clocks allow workers to input and manage their hours. It eliminates the burden of the managers and supervisors manually recording, collecting, and verifying employee attendance. Furthermore, these systems can be integrated into the payroll software, streamlining the entire process. In this article, we will learn everything about time and attendance clocks and how companies use them to their advantage. Table of Contents What are employee time clocks? The 5 most common types of employee time clocks. 1. Punch Card Clocks 2. Digital Employee Time Clock 3. Time Station Software 4. Biometric employee time clock 5. Application-based employee time clock Why are time clocks important? Five benefits of using the time clock 1. It Saves HR time and money 2. Helps to decrease fraud in attendance 3. Make it easier to track overtime and cost 4. Helps to increase productivity 5. Decreases absenteeism Truein: The most efficient employee time clock Conclusion What are employee time clocks? An employee time clock is a device often used to record the start and end times of hourly workplace employees. Most modern time and attendance systems like Truein are capable of offering employee time clock functionalities. Several types of time and attendance clocks are available that you can choose to install within your organization. A face recognition time clock like Truein offers better security over other biometric and punch-in employee time clocks. Depending on your business and the kind of work environment in your company, you can choose the most suitable time clock app for small businesses . The 5 most common types of employee time clocks. 1. Punch Card Clocks The simplest type of employee time clock allows employees to insert a paper card when they arrive or leave work. The clock stamps the time and date on the card that indicates their shift’s start and end time. Many small businesses prefer punch card clocks due to their simplicity. However, these clocks are prone to time theft practices such as buddy punching . Also, they cannot be used by companies that employ remote workers. 2. Digital Employee Time Clock A digital employee time clock uses a swipe card with a magnetic stripe instead of a punch card. Workers swipe the magnetic stripe through a machine that records the time and date of the employee. Another variation of a digital clock is an electronic touchpad that doesn’t require workers to use a card. Instead, they can input a PIN into the machine to automatically save the punch-in data. The HR managers can then import the stored data for payroll. 3. Time Station Software Time Station software is an employee time clock that allows workers to clock in and out through a computer. There is a dedicated computer that employees utilize for all punch-ins. Some businesses also integrate time station software with a personal computer that allows employees to enter the time at their workstations. Many IT and software companies use such software. One of the most significant advantages of time station software is that the data can be integrated with the payroll software system. It makes it simpler to conduct payroll later. 4. Biometric employee time clock A biometric time clock uses a person’s human traits, such as fingerprint, Iris, thumb impression, etc., to record the attendance and shift timing. The fingerprint time clock is the most common type of biometric clock used in companies. Workers put their fingers on a scanner that identifies them by matching them with the fingerprint data stored in the database. The clock marks the attendance and punch-in time if the match is accurate. Organizations prefer biometric fingerprint employee time clocks because they can prevent buddy punching and any other time theft frauds . Another benefit is that workers don’t have to remember code or carry a punch card. However, biometric time and attendance clocks are not suitable for every industry. For instance, workers’ fingers are usually covered in dirt or oil in the mining industry, making it hard to punch in. Portability is another issue as these biometric attendance systems are in a fixed position and need dedicated hardware with sensors to read the feature (fingerprint, iris, retina, etc.) and record attendance. 5. Application-based employee time clock Such employee time clocks use a mobile or web application to authenticate clock in or clock out employees’ time. Truein is one such employee time clock that authenticates an employee based on their facial features using their smartphones instead of any biometric devices. It is a complete no-hardware solution, that depends on modern smartphones for employee identification and attendance recording. Why are time clocks important? Time and attendance clocks are necessary for an accurate representation of the shift. It helps workers and managers know when they start working and when they finish. Timekeeping devices help HR managers to keep track of employees and to ensure that they are not spending too much time here and there while at work, such as taking a too long lunch break or frequent breaks in between. The employee time clock is also necessary to ensure that employees work only the specified hours and not more. An adequate time and attendance management software ensure that workers are honest with their shifts and working when they’re supposed to be. The punch-in data can also provide evidence to confront irregular and unpunctual employees. This ensures that there are no productivity or efficiency issues within the workforce. Time clock software can be integrated with payroll software, making it much easier for HR managers to calculate and pay salaries. Payroll integration also helps to comply with labor laws and ensure that employees are getting paid correctly for the number of hours worked. In the absence of employee time clocks, payroll management can be tedious and cumbersome for the HR department. Five benefits of using the time clock 1. It Saves HR time and money Time clock software automatically collects and calculates the attendance data enabling HR managers to spend less time verifying attendance data. Managers and supervisors must no longer sort through hundreds of timesheets to conduct payroll. There is no conversion of minutes to hours or overtime estimations, so there is less room for human error. Employees are accurately paid for the number of hours worked. Inaccurate calculations can cost businesses a lot, as correcting payroll errors is a long process. Employee time clock software eliminates any room for human error and boosts the productivity of the HR department. 2. Helps to decrease fraud in attendance Employee time clocks eliminate the possibility of time theft frauds. facial recognition time clock apps like Truein utilize AI to identify and record employees’ attendance. Such timekeeping software can also use GPS to ensure that employees are at the location they are supposed to be when punching in. It is a valuable feature for manufacturing, construction, and mining industries where workers are distributed over a large area. geofencing attendance system can ensure that employees are present at the required site and not fraudulently marking their attendance from somewhere else. 3. Make it easier to track overtime and cost As accurate employee attendance data is available, employers can see the number of hours workers work and identify areas with expensive labor. It assists companies with labor cost management. Another advantage of an employee time clock is that it can quickly help you recognize employees using the most overtime to complete work. HR managers can estimate the accumulated cost due to overtime. It will help managers make more informed decisions and ensure no one is exploiting the overtime policies within the company. 4. Helps to increase productivity Time and attendance clocks can positively impact the productivity and efficiency level of the employees. As workers have immediate access to payroll data, they can self-assess their performance and make improvements wherever necessary. When they are informed with accurate data, they can address the attendance issues, and the management can take the steps needed to increase productivity. 5. Decreases absenteeism Absenteeism is serious trouble for organizations as it can cause constant interruptions in business operations and decrease productivity. Furthermore, when some employees are absent regularly, it can hurt the morale of hard-working workers. Time clocks are excellent devices to track workers who tend to be absent frequently. Truein: The most efficient employee time clock Truein is a face recognition-based time and attendance system designed to boost workforce productivity and plug revenue leakages. Comes with 70+ automated policies, this employee time clock software does not require any additional hardware for deployment. Employees can use their smartphones to punch in. It offers advanced attendance management policies such as GPS targeting, geofencing, overtime calculations, leave management , and shift scheduling . It is a cloud-based centralized attendance system that companies across industries use to automate and streamline their payroll management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion An effective employee time clock is essential for accurate payroll and efficient labor management . Whether a small business or an enterprise, time and attendance management are the core requirements for a profitable business. Manual timekeeping wastes resources, so you must invest in time clock software. The time and attendance clock automates attendance and payroll management, prevents time theft, and enforces shift schedules based on workforce analytics. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software Paid Time Off (PTO) Guide- Everything you need to know about what’s PTO Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Truein Help and Support Videos FAQs Contact Us Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Staff Registration You will be able to add all of your staff individually or in bulk, and their register their baseline face so that they can begin their time clocking. 1:21 min GPS Geofencing Setup You will be able to setup geofencing for your staff so that they can clock-in or clock-out from a specific geolocation. 1:22 min Regularization (Time Correction) You will be able to update your staffs' time in case they forget to clock in or clock out. 1:06 min Leave Management Setup You will be able to customise the leave types and policies. Also, you can either assign leaves to your employees or they can apply for leave, which can be approved or rejected. 4:16 min Account Setup Truein Terminology Guide How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Explore More General Support How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? Explore More Geofencing How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? Explore More Leaves How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? Explore More Reports How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? How to download reports? Explore More Shifts Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? What does grace time in shifts mean? Explore More Integration Explore More Employee Setup, Onboarding What will be the login credentials for staff? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? Explore More Regularization How to reject approved Regularization request? How to disable regularization request? Explore More User App Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Explore More Log a Ticket Contact Us No access to log a ticket. Please write us at support@truein.com +91 93099 87376 ​​ support@truein.com​ or contact us on +91 93099 87376 ​​ support@truein.com​ Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Regularization Regularization Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? To ensure that the Admin receives a notification if an employee fails to do an activity punch in regular intervals after clocking in you can setup a policy, P79: Missing activity punch alert Please refer to the below steps on how to set it up Log in to the Admin Web Dashboard > Settings > Policies > Click on ‘Add New Policy’ > Search for policy ‘P79: Missing activity punch alert’ > Click on ‘+’ to add the new policy > Please set up the policy according to your requirements > Add Now if an employee misses to do the activity punch, the Admin will receive a push notification as well as will find the details in the ‘Alerts & Approvals’ section in the Dashboard. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Roles What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Global Admin has all the access to the system and has the hierarchy over Admin. He can add new licenses, view subscriptions and other billing-related details, create new sites to the account, and by default view the reports of all sites. You can check for more details on roles in in Staff directory > View roles Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? Yes, you can set policy P56: Limit Time Correction requests from staff By enabling this policy you can limit staff to regularize attendance up to X days a month. For eg: If you set the value of ‘X’ as 3, then staff will be able to regularize attendance up to 3 days a month. To enable this policy please follow the below steps: Log in to Admin Web Dashboard > Settings > Policies > Click on “Add New Policy” > Seach for policy P56: Limit Time Correction requests from staff > Click on the “+” Sign > Setup the values according to your requirement > Click on “Add” Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Yes, there are rounding policies available for clock-in time, clock-out time, worked hours, and overtime hours. Rounding can be done to the nearest value, on the higher side, or on the lower side. Policy P44: Rounding-off Worked hours – When this policy is enabled total worked hours will be rounded. e.g. Rounding is set to the nearest 15 mins, then worked hours will be calculated below If worked hours is 7 hrs 35 mins, it will be rounded to 7 hours 30 mins If worked hours is 7 hrs 42 mins, it will be rounded to 7 hours 45 mins Policy P66: Rounding-off Clock In Time –  When this policy is enabled the clock in time will be rounded. e.g. Rounding is set to the nearest 5 minutes, then worked hours will be calculated below If the clock-in time is 8:57 am, it will be rounded to 8:55 am If the clock-in time is 8:58 am, it will be rounded to 9:00 am Policy P67: Rounding-off Clock Out Time –  When this policy is enabled the clock-out time will be rounded. Policy P20: Overtime rounding policy – When this policy is enabled overtime will be rounded on the lower side e.g. Rounding is set to 30 mins, then overtime hours will be calculated below If overtime is 43 mins, it will be rounded to 30 mins Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Admins can set the below policies to track the long absence of staff as per organization rules. Long absent alert for Admin. If the staff has not been coming for consecutive X days, then generate an alert on the next entry. Auto-deactivate staff on the long unplanned absence. If staff is Absent for more than X days due to an unplanned event, then auto-deactivate. Auto-deactivate staff when multiple occurrences of missed Clock Out When the policy is enabled, choose if you want to enable it at the site level or staff category level. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Yes, admins can enable policy P19 to handle such scenarios. In case staff clocks in before their shift start time then their shift start time will be considered as clock-in time for worked hours calculations. You can activate or deactivate this policy from the Settings > Policies section. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Yes, Admins can set below policies to restrict clock-in/clock-out as per organization rules Restrict Clock In outside specific time period. e.g. Allow Clock in between 6.45 am to 7.15 am for staff scheduled in First shift having shift start time of 7.00 am Restrict Clock Out outside specific time period e.g. Allow Clock out between 2.45 pm to 3.15 pm for staff scheduled in First shift having shift end time of 3.00 pm You can set such restrictions based on staff category or shifts or for specific departments. You can activate or deactivate these policies from the Settings > Policies section. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) Admins can set policies to track if any staff clocks in (marks attendance) on a weekly off or a public holiday. It can be done as follows Setup up Weekly off or Holiday clock in policy Admins need to enable the policy from Settings > Policies > Click on Add new policy > Search “weekly off” or Search “holiday” > list of all related policies will be displayed > Select and enable as required We have two ways to set it up – either apply a common rule or define it for each category of staff. There are certain pre-defined policies like If staff clocks in on a weekly off or holiday, then worked hours will be added to overtime. Add Comp Off for working on Weekly Off or Holidays Sandwich policy for Weekly Off and Public holiday Set up policies at the organization/site level or staff category level When the policy is enabled, choose if you want to enable it at the site level, staff category level, or shift level Enable approval policy If working on a weekly off or holiday requires approval then enable policy P51: Attendance approval for working on Weekly Off or Holiday Once this policy is enabled all clock-ins/attendance done by staff on weekly-off or holidays will require Manager/Admin approval. It will appear in ‘Alerts & Approvals’ section. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) In case your staff forgot to clock out after their regular working hours you can set up a policy that either marks that day’s time card as Forgot out OR you can set up a policy to mark it as Auto out. When to set policy as Forgot out In case you want staff to manually update clock-out time which then goes for Manager/Admin approval, then set policy as forgot out. The system will not mark any out-time in this case. It will be the responsibility of staff or manager/admin to update clock-out time to reflect the worked hours. If out time is not updated, the days worked hours will be marked as 0 and won’t be considered as Present in Timesheets. When to set policy as auto-out In case you want to system to mark out time automatically in case of a missed clock-out after predefined hours, then set the policy as Auto-out. In this case, working hours will be considered as defined regular hours, and staff or admin/manager can skip to update clock-out time manually. Go to Settings > Policy > Add/Update P25: When Staff forgets to Clock Out policy. Select X value as no. of hours after which you want staff to be marked as Forgot-Out or Auto-out. Select Y value as ‘Forgot out’ or ‘Out’. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Admins can set policies to track late marks as per organization rules. It can be done as follows Setup latemark policy Admins need to enable the late-mark policy from Settings > Policies > Click on Add new policy > Search “late mark” > list of all late-mark related policies will be displayed > Select and enable as required We have two ways to set it up – either apply a common rule or define it for each category of staff. There are certain pre-defined policies like – Add ‘Late Mark’ if staff Clocks In late e.g. If Staff clocks in after 15 mins of their Regular In-Time or after their Shift’s grace time, then mark it as Late – Deduct Worked hours/ day based on Late Marks e.g. – Mark Half-day for every 3 late marks in a month. OR – If staff is late by X minutes from regular in time/shift start time, then mark it as Half Day. OR – Deduct 1 Time-off (Leaves) for every 3 late marks in a month You can activate or deactivate them from the Settings > Policies section. Set up late-mark policies at the organization/site level or staff category level When the late mark policy is enabled, choose if you want to enable it at the site level, staff category level, or shift level Late-Mark view in Timesheet Latemark calculated based on the enabled policies will be visible in the Timesheet and daily Time Card of the staff. It will also be visible in the Late mark Report. Daily View Timesheet view Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? Yes, you can assign the policy on a shift level. Just while assigning any policy from Settings -> Policies -> Add Policy -> Assign o Shift Level Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies How is overtime calculated in Truein How is overtime calculated in Truein Overtime policies can be set in Truein as per the requirement of the company from Dashboard -> Settings -> Policies -> Add Policy -> Search Overtime -> Add required policy Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Yes, this can be applied using policies P35 and P71. P35: Restrict Clock In outside specific time period P71: Restrict Clock Out outside specific time period You can enable these policies from Settings > Policies > Add New Policy Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support User App User App How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Policies Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? Yes, this can be setup using policy P29 – Add Comp Off for working on Weekly Off or Holidays. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Employee Setup, Onboarding Employee Setup, Onboarding How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Roles Roles What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Geofencing Geofencing What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form