Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organizations 20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organizations May 28, 2024 The great resignation had many industries worried about the future of workplace culture and how the changing workplace priorities are making employee retention difficult. When TikTok users coined quiet quitting , companies were left scrambled to improve employee retention with whatever option possible. Whether a small business or multinational organization, knowledge of increasing employee retention can help build a formidable workforce. If you want your employees to stay in their jobs and remain committed to the organization, here are 20 practical ways to increase employee retention. Table of Contents 20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organization 1. Implement effective onboarding and orientation 2. Conduct mentorship programs 3. Offer fair employee compensation 4. Wellness offerings 5. Offer perks & employee benefits 6. Maintain proper communication 7. Provide performance feedback 8. Offer flexible work options 9. Provide training & career development 10. Act on exit survey insights 11. Make flexible work arrangements 12. Encourage teamwork 13. Practice effective change management 14. Show employees how their work benefits the customer 15. Build employee engagement 16. Reduce employee burnout 17. Integrate technology at the workplace 18. Hire for the cultural fit 19. Encourage employee creativity 20. Foster respect for team members Conclusion FAQs 1. How do you calculate the employee retention rate? 2. Why do employees leave an organization? 20 Ways to Improve Employee Retention in Organization 1. Implement effective onboarding and orientation Setting the tone right from the beginning is a crucial step that must be considered. With effective onboarding and orientation, you can improve an employee’s experience and make their journey within the organization comfortable. It starts with structured training, introducing employees to the company policies, culture, and job-specific tasks. You can pair new employees with experienced colleagues so they do not feel alienated during the transition. Effective onboarding is not only about job roles and responsibilities; it’s also about letting new hires understand the company’s values and mission. Additionally, there must be a feedback loop to ensure that you promptly address any challenges or concerns new employees might face. 2. Conduct mentorship programs Mentorship programs can improve employee turnover by allowing employees to find guidance with experienced employees. It provides the opportunity to grow within the organization by providing a solid sense of belonging, guidance, and support. Ensure your mentorship programs create structured employee pairing based on experience, job role, or specific goals. Set up regular check-ins to evaluate the growth and progress. With mentorship, you can accelerate the employees’ professional development and keep them oriented toward the organization’s goals. 3. Offer fair employee compensation You can only expect to improve employee retention by offering competitive compensation. Employers should regularly evaluate and adjust salaries, ensuring fair and competitive compensation packages are provided. It will motivate employees to stay and perform at their best. HR is responsible for doing market research and reviewing compensation, ensuring it meets industry standards. Pay attention to the importance of performance-based incentives. As long as your employees feel valued and recognized for their hard work, they will consistently try to excel in their roles. Additional benefits, such as healthcare, retirement plans, and other perks, can significantly increase employee retention. 4. Wellness offerings Employee well-being encompasses their mental, physical, and financial health. Your workforce’s fitness level directly impacts their productivity. It would help if you create wellness programs that make them healthier and happier. The easiest is to take health initiatives that promote their physical well-being, such as gym memberships and offering healthy food options. Growing concerns about the mental health of workers must also be addressed. Offer your employees access to counseling and stress management programs to help them cope with stress and maintain a healthy work-life balance. Allowing flexible work schedules and paid time off will encourage work-life balance. 5. Offer perks & employee benefits Perks and benefits go beyond salary. Offering bonuses can significantly boost your workforce’s overall job satisfaction if you seek ways to increase employee retention. Start by providing a robust healthcare plan that includes medical, dental, and vision expenses. Retirement plans like 401(k) plans help employees see their financial security with your organization in the long run. You can stand out from other companies by providing generous paid time off to workers so they can enjoy quality time with their families. It makes them happier and recharges them mentally to be more productive at work. 6. Maintain proper communication Effective communication is the first step towards creating a healthy work environment and resolving conflicts. One of the ways to improve employee retention is to foster trust, transparency, and a sense of belonging among employees. Create an open-door policy at the workplace, allowing employees to approach their managers or HR with their concerns or suggestions. When their voices are heard, workers feel valued and not ignored. Furthermore, the organization’s communication flow must be two-way and not just top-down. Managers should communicate with the employees what’s expected of them so they understand their roles and responsibilities. Also, keep employees informed about company updates such as strategic changes and successes. 7. Provide performance feedback Poor performance can leave your workers demotivated and can result in employee turnover. That’s why your employees must be provided regular and constructive feedback on their performance. Help employees understand their shortcomings with regular performance reviews or one-on-one meetings. Always acknowledge and appreciate good work, publicly recognizing their achievements can boost employee morale. It will motivate them to stay and excel. 8. Offer flexible work options Flexible work options make your company friendly for diverse employees with varying needs and preferences. You can consider job rotation, allowing employees to experience different roles. Part-time work options suit employees seeking reduced hours or those transitioning back into the workforce. Some industries, like HVAC maintenance, can allow seasonal scheduling, allowing employees to work intensely during peak seasons and take extended breaks in the off-season. At the same time, IT companies can consider project-based roles, which can offer flexibility and diversity to employees. 9. Provide training & career development Do you know that 86% of millennials can be kept from leaving their jobs if provided appropriate training ? Not only millennials but most employees seek growth and advancement opportunities within an organization. You must invest in their ongoing training and development programs to improve employee retention. Tie up with upskilling companies to provide your employees access to online courses , workshops, and mentorship. Additionally, give employees with potential growth preferences. Also, cross-training can help workers gain experience in different roles or departments, broadening their skill sets. 10. Act on exit survey insights It would be ignorant to assume that your employees will stay in the company. However, when they go, provide them the opportunity to share their feedback on the experience with the company via exit interviews. Organizations can gain valuable insights through exit interviews and identify areas of improvement to increase employee retention. Ask departing employees why they’re leaving and listen to what they suggest to improve the company. 11. Make flexible work arrangements According to a study, employees believe remote work improves morale and work-life balance . It may not be possible for industries like construction and manufacturing to offer remote options, but they can offer flexible work arrangements. When you create flexible schedules, employees have time to attend to personal or family commitments without losing pay or asking for time off. Some companies practice job sharing and alternative workweeks to offer flexible work arrangements for work-life balance and job satisfaction. 12. Encourage teamwork Encouraging teamwork in the workplace is essential and can improve employee retention by fostering a sense of belonging. Collaboration is not just about team-building activities outside the work environment but can be achieved through cross-functional projects. Organizations can create opportunities for employees from different departments to collaborate. It will encourage a sense of unity and shared goals. Managers should ensure that meetings are inclusive and promote participation from all team members for open dialogue and idea sharing. To encourage teamwork, leaders should lead by example, demonstrating teamwork and collaboration in their interactions. 13. Practice effective change management During COVID, it was made abundantly clear that change – good or bad – is inevitable in the workplace. However, employee retention depends on how such changes are managed. Open and transparent communication is mandatory during a change. When you communicate the reasons behind the change with employees, they know the anticipated outcomes and how it will impact them. It prevents anxiety and addresses concerns and questions openly. Companies should include employees in the change process. It will give them a sense of ownership and reduce resistance to change. 14. Show employees how their work benefits the customer One of the excellent ways to increase employee retention is to let them experience how their work impacts customers. You can share positive customer feedback and case studies with employees to showcase how their efforts have changed customers’ lives and businesses. Companies can also use key performance indicators (KPIs) and other metrics to demonstrate the impact of individual contributions on customer outcomes. Create communication channels for employees to interact directly with customers or clients. A personal connection can motivate employees to take pride in their work. 15. Build employee engagement Disengaged employees have low morale and are most likely to leave. That’s why employee engagement is a critical factor in retention. If you want your employees to stay and contribute to the organization’s success, you must improve their work engagement. Allowing employees to take on meaningful responsibilities can give them a sense of ownership by empowering them to make decisions. Create feedback channels so employees can share their opinions with management. It will let them know that their opinions matter. Skill development can create an engaged workforce as they see a future within the organization. 16. Reduce employee burnout Another way to improve employee retention is to prevent employee burnout . If you are continuously exhausting the employees with workload or repetitive tasks, they are most likely to quit. Workload management is essential. Monitor and manage employee workloads to prevent excessive stress. Use software like Asana to ensure that tasks are distributed fairly. Flexible work arrangements will also help employees maintain work-life balance. Another way to ensure employee burnout is not affecting retention is by offering resources and support for mental health, such as counseling services or stress management programs. 17. Integrate technology at the workplace Modern workplaces thrive on technology; selecting the right tools can help improve employee retention. Be it work scheduling or time off management, with the right solution, you can increase workplace efficiency and job satisfaction. Shift scheduling software like Truein can significantly improve work-life balance, allowing managers to track employee hours and monitor work. This data could be further utilized to identify overworked/undeworked staff and take appropriate actions. Truein is a cloud-based time and attendance management software featuring robust shift scheduling features. It allows managers to monitor workers’ attendance and productivity to identify pain points. It helps streamline and optimize daily tasks and processes to ensure employees can manage their workloads effectively. You should provide employees with the right tools for the job, such as project management software, communication tools, or industry-specific software. Additionally constantly upskilling your employees via online courses is a great way to keep them motivated  It helps them perform more efficiently and improves their overall productivity and well-being. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 18. Hire for the cultural fit If you hire employees whose values do not align with the organization’s values, beliefs, and expectations, you will have difficulty retaining them. That’s why we always hire for the cultural fit. Hiring managers must understand company culture and values and know what kind of employees would thrive within this culture. Assess candidates for cultural fit during interviews, asking about their values and experiences. Emphasize the company’s culture during onboarding and tell employees how to contribute. Hiring for cultural fit doesn’t mean you can ignore diversity and inclusion. A diverse workforce can bring new perspectives and ideas to the table and hence, must be considered. 19. Encourage employee creativity Encouraging employee creativity is one way to improve employee retention. No one appreciates the monotonous work culture, so creativity is essential. A creative workforce drives innovation and problem-solving. Companies should create an atmosphere where employees feel safe and encouraged to share ideas. Also, innovative ideas that impact an organization positively should be acknowledged and rewarded. One of the best ways to promote employee creativity is to encourage cross-functional collaborations. When employees from different departments collaborate, they bring diverse perspectives, often leading to more creative solutions. 20. Foster respect for team members A positive work environment is a fundamental requirement for retaining employees. Your organization must implement inclusive practices that promote diversity, equity, and inclusion. It is every employer’s responsibility to ensure that every employee feels valued and respected. Managers should be trained and provided resources for conflict resolution to handle interpersonal issues constructively. Implementing strict anti-harassment policies and providing channels for reporting concerns will make employees feel respected and safe. Conclusion When an organization is struggling with employee turnover, it’s often internal issues that go unnoticed. Creating a work environment conducive to employee satisfaction, development, and long-term commitment is essential to improve employee retention. The strategies shared can help companies improve employee turnover and ensure success and stability. FAQs 1. How do you calculate the employee retention rate? The simple formula for employee retention rate calculation is: Retention Rate = [(Number of Employees at the Start of a Period – Number of Employees Who Left During the Period) / Number of Employees at the Start of the Period] x 100 2. Why do employees leave an organization? There can be several reasons why an organization has high employee turnover. Lack of career growth opportunities, insufficient compensation or benefits, poor work-life balance, inadequate recognition, burnout, and lack of job satisfaction and engagement are common reasons. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively 6 Ways to Improve Facility Management Operations How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Workforce Management & Optimization »  					How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) May 28, 2024 Regardless of size and industry, any organization can only be as efficient as its employees. Your workforce is the fundamental unit crucial for achieving strategic goals. In this effort, you must monitor staff performance to ensure employees are not facing any difficulty at the workplace. Another advantage of tracking employee performance is that you can proactively take steps to help them learn on the job, improving their skills and efficiency. Suppose you are still getting familiar with strategies to track employee performance, in that case, this guide will help you identify areas for improvement and ensure that the workforce is aligned with the company’s goals. Table of Contents How to track employee performance? 1. Measure employee performance based on SMART goals 2. Review their performance based on the output produced 3. Help employees with self-monitoring tools 4. Use Job scheduling tools 5. Use employee productivity score 6. Arrange 1:1 meetings 7. Assess their development 8. Focus on employee relearning 9. Conduct surveys 10. Use charts What is the importance of tracking employee performance? 1. Performance accountability and transparency 2. Better resource allocation 3. Ensure fairness and transparency in evaluations Conclusion FAQ 1. How often should employee performance be tracked – annually, quarterly, or in real-time? How to track employee performance? 1. Measure employee performance based on SMART goals Specific, Measurable, Actionable, Relevant, and Time-bound or SMART goals are the foundation for building any strategy that will allow your workers to keep up with your company’s production and revenue goals. You cannot evaluate the performance of your employees based on unrealistic benchmarks. Firstly, any plan must be well-defined, leaving no room for ambiguity. When your employees clearly understand what is expected of them, they are self-motivated to deliver. The key performance indicators you use for measuring employees’ progress should be quantifiable. Performance goals set up by supervisors and managers should be realistic and attainable. Furthermore, the goals you set for workers should align with their role and the organization’s overall objectives. Finally, to keep employees on track, set clear deadlines for achieving goals, creating a sense of urgency. 2. Review their performance based on the output produced For roles held by blue-collar workers, the primary performance indicator is the output. This is why the performance of such employees should be assessed on both the quality and quantity of work produced. As well as, the performance should be assessed based on time taken to produce each output/product. This is the most accurate strategy to track employee performance in industries like manufacturing and construction. A high-performing worker consistently achieves their goals, and you need to include this. Any staff performance tracker should record output as well as time. This will provide a clear view of the employees’ error rate or defect rate. Fewer errors may signify better performance. 3. Help employees with self-monitoring tools If the managers or supervisors are pointing out performance issues ambiguously, there is no little scope for employees to take action. Instead, it can create a feeling of resentment towards the management. Therefore, instead of just saying, “David, you took long to assemble the headlight,” you can provide David with self-monitoring tools that he can use to time his performance. Time management tools can help employees allocate their shifts to various tasks more effectively. When employees can track how much time they are spending on each task, they have clear feedback on how efficient they are. Another way to help employees monitor their performance is to encourage using checklists and planners to keep track of tasks and deadlines. 4. Use Job scheduling tools Job scheduling is an excellent way to plan the day for workers to follow. If your company uses job or task scheduling tools, it can significantly improve employee performance. One of the benefits of Job scheduling tools like Truein is that they help managers monitor employee productivity. Truein is a complete time and attendance management software application that offers robust job-scheduli ng options. This cloud-based, hardware-less tool can easily streamline the process of tracking employee performance, especially for blue-collar workers. Truein is designed to calculate work hours for full-time, part-time, contract, and distributed workforce. Its precise tracking not only helps with payroll and compliance, but it also accurately tracks employee performance. Managers can use Truein’s planned vs. actual view reporting feature to compare the planned work schedule with the actual hours worked. It helps in identifying any discrepancies and allows making necessary adjustments. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 5. Use employee productivity score What can be measured can be improved, so you need to create an employee productivity score. It should acknowledge whether an employee is showing performance enhancement or decline. One of the main reasons most companies lose their productive employees to the competition is their efficiency should have been acknowledged. Create a productivity score considering primary performance metrics such as output, efficiency, and reliability. You can then compare the employee productivity score against industry benchmarks or historical performance data to identify areas for improvement. It will help regularly track employee performance and introduce any corrective measures early. 6. Arrange 1:1 meetings The importance of face-to-face interactions can always be maintained. Most companies are recalling employees back to work at the office because communication is vital for employee performance. The 1:1 meetings foster a constructive environment and provide managers and employees with a platform to exchange feedback. Managers can address concerns and acknowledge achievements during meetings, while workers can openly express their thoughts, seek clarification, and ask questions. Such meetings provide a safe space to discuss employees’ goals and the organization’s objectives. It’s an opportunity for managers to confirm that the employee works on tasks contributing to the company’s success. Managers can offer personalized guidance or support to address employee’s unique needs and challenges if there is any misalignment. All these activities facilitate ongoing tracking of employee performance. 7. Assess their development Continuous evaluation of employees’ progress is an essential component of tracking performance. But how do you assess their development? Skill development is an indicator that your blue-collar workers are improving. With skill development, employees become more proficient in their roles, ultimately boosting their performance. When you know employees have the potential to grow, you can create initiatives that allow them opportunities for internal promotions. It creates a committed and loyal workforce. Ensure that your organization provides the right tools and the environment for employees to actively work on improving their performance. 8. Focus on employee relearning Industries are rapidly evolving, and to remain relevant and profitable, companies must invest in continuous learning of their workforce. To track employee performance easily, you should encourage continuous learning. Your employees should be open to acquiring new skills and adapting to changing technologies. Companies can facilitate upskilling by providing access to training programs and resources to help employees relearn and upskill. Simultaneously, assess how relearning initiatives impact the performance. This will provide a clear view of how much improvement can be expected from relearning. 9. Conduct surveys To monitor staff performance, organizations can also use surveys to gather employee feedback, opinions, and insights. Companies with a feedback mechanism within the organizational structure are well aware of critical factors, such as job satisfaction, workload, and work environment, affecting the workers directly. These insights can significantly guide decision-making. The same surveys can uncover concerns, challenges, or issues that employees may not share openly. 10. Use charts If you manage multiple teams or a large team with hundreds of workers, a large amount of data can make it challenging to track performance. With the correct performance tools, you can turn extensive performance data into charts that are much easier to comprehend. What is the importance of tracking employee performance? In modern workforce management, it is crucial to track employee performance for several reasons. Regardless of size or industry, it plays a pivotal role in an organization’s growth and success. The importance of monitoring employee performance is multifaceted. 1. Performance accountability and transparency Tracking employee performance is how companies nurture a culture of accountability and transparency among employees. When employees know their performance is being monitored, they are encouraged to take their responsibilities seriously. It fosters a sense of ownership and commitment to their tasks. 2. Better resource allocation When you monitor staff performance, you inevitably get an insight into resource management. Managers can identify any resource allocation bottlenecks that are hampering employee productivity. It also helps identify who the top performers are and those in need of improvement. 3. Ensure fairness and transparency in evaluations Often, favoritism and biases find their place in the management if there is no way to ensure fairness or transparency in evaluations. Tracking performance is the most accurate method to ensure promotions, salary adjustments, and recognitions are awarded relatively based on merit. This creates a more equitable work environment and boosts employee morale. Ultimately, if any organization wants to make data-driven decisions for workforce management, tracking employee performance is the best strategy. Conclusion Modern workforce management is multifaceted and requires intelligent ways to track employee performance. While you must include strategies like setting clear goals, monitoring output, and encouraging continuous learning in workforce management, you also need a staff performance tracker like Truein for job scheduling and monitoring. With the right tools and strategies, you can ensure that your employees are constantly evolving to meet industry demands. FAQ 1. How often should employee performance be tracked – annually, quarterly, or in real-time? It depends on the nature of work and industry. Monitoring staff performance in construction and manufacturing prevents significant losses. While for other sectors, quarterly or annual performance tracking might be more effective. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Types of Performance Evaluation: 11 Types of Performance Evaluation Methods & Benefits of Performance Appraisal Employee Performance Metrics: 16 Types of Employee Performance Indicators and Benefits Performance Bonus Examples: 15 Types of Performance Bonus Examples and Benefits Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form