Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How does an Online Attendance System Work? How does an Online Attendance System Work? July 24, 2024 An attendance system is one of the critical requirements to ensure the company’s productivity is optimized. While it is hard for many managers to directly co-relate attendance with productivity and revenue, it is an integral part of payroll management. Digital optimization is at the forefront in 2022, and companies across industries are adopting online attendance. Technology has always been the mediator between increased productivity and workforce satisfaction. With an online attendance system, your company can automate an essential workforce and payroll management segment. If you have ever been a manager or supervisor, you understand how tedious and time-consuming manual attendance recording can be. In the digital landscape, there is no place for redundant manual labor. Any company, irrespective of its business nature and size, can benefit from adopting an online attendance app for employee . In this comprehensive guide, we look in-depth at how the technology behind an online attendance tracker functions and why companies need to adopt such a solution. Table of Contents How does an online attendance management system work? Types of online attendance systems Benefits of online attendance system Which industries can benefit from an online attendance system? 1. Manufacturing & construction 2. Facility management 3. Education 4. Healthcare industry Truein: A modern online attendance and time management system Conclusion How does an online attendance management system work? An online attendance system is a dedicated software designed to manage attendance but also offers a robust set of tools for workforce management. A typical online attendance app like Truein is based on cloud architecture with a centralized database with fail-over and backup of infrastructure done across multiple regions. Managers, supervisors, and employees can access the data stored within the online attendance system with a varying degree of access defined by the organization. Since online attendance is entirely paperless, HR managers get freedom from managing timesheets, manually calculating leaves and holidays, accurately converting overtime hours, etc. The time saved can be invested in essential business activities to boost productivity and revenue. The working of an online attendance system is pretty straightforward, which is why companies across industries are openly adopting them. No infrastructural changes or system upgrades are required to implement online attendance within an organization. As mentioned before, it operates on the cloud; everything related to online time attendance exists on cloud servers. To set up an online attendance system, managers have to enter the details of the employee and allow access. Depending on the method you are using, verification of the employee might be required. For instance, an online biometric attendance system uses physical traits like fingerprints, iris scans, thumb impressions, face recognition, etc., to identify workers and record attendance. One of the most significant advantages of adopting an online attendance system is the easy data availability from anywhere, anytime. Managers can access attendance data for payroll with a click. Similarly, supervisors can check the availability of workers without any interference from the managers. An online attendance app allows employees to access shift data, record attendance, and get notified about schedule changes. Types of online attendance systems There are several types of online attendance systems available. A company can choose an online time attendance solution that best matches its requirements. Card punching machines are the most basic type of online attendance system. These machines use a time card that stores the employee ID and other related information about a person. To record clock in and out time, the workers must swap the time card on a machine. The problem with card punching machines is that they are prone to buddy punching . Online biometric attendance systems are primarily popular. Biometric attendance systems rely on physiological or behavioral characteristics to identify an employee and record attendance. Physiological biometric attendance systems capture and compare a person’s fingerprints, hands, face, iris, etc. At the same time, behavioral biometric attendance systems rely on a person’s behavior, such as voice, keystroke, and signature. Mechanized attendance systems record online attendance when input is provided. Such attendance systems depend on passwords to automatically register in and out the timing of the employees. These systems offer a degree of automation but are highly prone to time theft . Cloud-based attendance systems are the latest inclusion in the category. Truein is one of the leading cloud-based AI-powered time and attendance management systems that utilize modern cloud infrastructure and captures attendance by using face recognition technology. The benefit of implementing such systems is decentralization. Cloud-based attendance systems like Truein don’t require any additional hardware and can be used through mobile apps. While evaluating the necessity of online attendance within your organization, you must look beyond the upfront costs and anticipate the benefits. In detail, let’s discuss some of the essential benefits of an online attendance app. Benefits of online attendance system Prevents error: Online attendance systems eliminate human error vulnerability. Often staff complaints about incorrect data from the HR team result in inaccurate attendance calculations and ultimately affect salary. With online attendance management, such errors can be easily prevented. More efficient: Manual attendance keeping is cumbersome because it involves manually recording attendance in timesheets. As managers have to maintain these timesheets and manually input data into payroll software periodically, it’s not difficult to anticipate how time-consuming this entire process can be. Online attendance systems entirely automate the timekeeping of employees. Modern online attendance apps like Truein can be easily integrated with payroll software. It eliminates the requirement to manually share data between attendance and payroll software. Real-time tracking is possible: A unique feature of some online attendance systems is that they allow real-time monitoring of employees. In industries like mining, construction, and manufacturing, where the workforce is scattered over a large area, real-time attendance tracking effectively discourages time theft and calculates working hours more accurately. Automatic reports generation: The comprehensive set of tools we spoke of earlier includes automatic reports generation. Automated attendance and time management systems like Truein have built-in capability to generate insightful reports. The data in these reports can facilitate a company’s productivity and workforce management decisions. Integrate with other software: Plug and play feature of online attendance apps make them more robust. The cloud infrastructure of online attendance systems enables compatibility with HRM, accounting, marketing, and payroll software. It is incredible freedom from migrating data from one software to another, which is a technical task and often requires the services of a third-party engineering team. No additional peripherals are required, accessible from the phone: Cloud-based software is also known as a mobile-based attendance system or hardware-less application. It is called hardware less because it does not require the setup or installation of any peripherals. These apps can be deployed on the workers’ smartphones or you can use it as a kiosk and require an initial configuration to record real-time attendance. Which industries can benefit from an online attendance system? 1. Manufacturing & construction These industries do not have a workforce tied to a desktop computer at one location. Workers in the manufacturing and construction industries are pleased with several remote areas. With online attendance systems, workers in these industries can be tracked, and their attendance can be accurately recorded. Furthermore, the geofencing attendance system ensures that workers are at the worksite while recording their attendance. 2. Facility management Managing employee time and attendance for facility management staff can be challenging since most managers are always on the go, traveling from one location to another to serve customers. With online real-time attendance management systems, facility managers can remotely track employees. They can also access essential employee data such as time, location, number of workers, etc. 3. Education Attendance is an integral part of the education industry. Unsurprisingly, schools and colleges are one of the main customers of online attendance system manufacturers. In the wake of the pandemic outbreak, more educational institutions are proactively adopting touchless online attendance systems. 4. Healthcare industry In the healthcare industry, HR teams are usually busy with medical practices and keeping up with insurance, billing, and compliance. Amidst all these responsibilities, employee time tracking can be a significant productivity hassle. This is why the healthcare industry is one of the prime customers of cloud-based timekeeping solutions. Truein: A modern online attendance and time management system Truein is a full-fledged online attendance and time management system that helps companies automate attendance keeping. An AI-based face recognition attendance system , Truein offers HR managers complete control over employee time tracking. It is a hardware-less, cloud-based software available as online attendance app. Apart from real-time and efficient attendance and time tracking, it offers powerful report generation, shift scheduling , and leave management , and easily integrates with the most popular payroll software systems. Here are its top features: Realtime and accurate time and attendance management Mobile/tablet app-based ( Android , iOS ) Easy Payroll integration Enterprise-grade data security and privacy Review and approve hours Geo and GPS-based time tracking “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Online attendance is mandatory for businesses adopting digital transformation. Traditional recording attendance is highly prone to time theft and costs businesses billions of dollars annually. Your organization can boost productivity and eliminate time theft by adopting a reliable online attendance management system like Truein. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is Geofencing and How Does It Work? What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					How To Create Attendance Policy for Your Manufacturing Plant? How To Create Attendance Policy for Your Manufacturing Plant? July 24, 2024 The manufacturing industry is one of the major contributors to the United States economy. with a total value of $2269.2 to U.S. GDP, which makes up 10.8 % of total GDP . Also, the manufacturing industry is one of the largest employers of the labor force in the world. However, its reliance on workers puts it at risk of productivity issues such as absenteeism . Absenteeism results in a loss of over $225.8 billion to the U.S. manufacturing industry annually. Workers can be blamed for frequent absences from work, hampering productivity and scheduling within a company, but the attendance policy can also be a contributing factor. Effective working in any manufacturing organization depends on the employers’ punctuality, sincerity, and schedule. In this regard, employee attendance becomes crucial because it is required to ensure regular work. Employees are confused or misinformed in the absence of proper attendance policies at work, which leads to absenteeism. In this article, we explore in detail how your manufacturing organization should create an effective attendance policy. Table of Contents Why is it essential to have an attendance policy at your manufacturing plant? 1. Helps to reduce absenteeism 2. Increase productivity of employees, which helps in revenue growth How to create the best attendance policy for manufacturing? 1. Learn about labor laws 2. Create a point-based attendance policy 3. Communicate with your employees and explain the policy clearly Manufacturing Attendance Policy Template Free attendance policy template for manufacturing How can Truein help with attendance in the manufacturing industry? Why is it essential to have an attendance policy at your manufacturing plant? 1. Helps to reduce absenteeism Excessive absenteeism can deeply impact the bottom line of any manufacturing company. If workers often report late or don’t attend shifts at all, managers might have to restructure workflows and schedules. But this can have a domino effect on the entire organization. When you have a manufacturing attendance policy, employees know what is expected at work. It also helps maintain a balance between employees as coworkers are not forced to take over extra workload because of the absentees. 2. Increase productivity of employees, which helps in revenue growth When workers don’t have to rush into things or their working hours are not increased due to a lack of workforce, the quality of their work is high. An attendance policy at work positively affects overall productivity. When workers are regularly at work, they adapt to the changes in the work schedules or environment, ultimately improving their efficiency. Regular attendance ensures that appropriate numbers of workers are available to work in shifts. Hence, no delay in production can affect the end customers. Uninterrupted production at a manufacturing company helps ensure that the revenue keeps on growing. How to create the best attendance policy for manufacturing? Before you create a manufacturing plant attendance policy, it is essential to consider mandatory requirements. First, you must be aware that the attendance policy at your manufacturing company has to be flexible. As the requirements of the company or the workers will change, the attendance policy document must change too. It must be adjusted over time to adapt to the business challenges and to accommodate the requirements of employees. The best attendance policy for manufacturing is the one that’s amended annually or quarterly based on workers’ attendance data. Here are some important considerations to keep in mind. 1. Learn about labor laws All manufacturing attendance policies must comply with federal, state, and local laws. The Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) works at the federal level, giving workers the right to 12 workweeks of job-protected unpaid leave for medical reasons. You have to mention in your attendance policy that FMLA leaves will not result in any disciplinary action or termination. You can use a labor attendance app for smooth attendance tracking. If your manufacturing unit also employs workers with disabilities, the attendance policy must adhere to the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) rules. It requires you to change your attendance policy to accommodate workers that live with disabilities. Like FMLA, you cannot fire or take disciplinary action against workers for situations covered by the ADA. As state and local employment laws vary, you must consult local consultancies about these policies. 2. Create a point-based attendance policy A popular system of enforcing attendance policies for manufacturing is the point system. It’s a simple model where each event is related to attendance, such as absence, tardiness, and too-long breaks corresponding to certain points. The points are decided based on the severity of the lapse in attendance. A typical point-based attendance policy for a manufacturing company looks like this: Issue Definition Points Tardiness Less than ten minutes late 0.5 Late Between ten minutes and two hours late 1 Partial shift Leaving work early 1.5 Truant Over two hours late 2 Absent Absent with a phone call 2.5 No-call, no-show Absent without a phone call 10 For instance, if a worker is late for more than an hour, his record will have 1 point and so on. These points will be added at the end of each month, quarter, or year to enforce disciplinary actions. Usually, the following actions are taken as per the end score: Disciplinary Action Points Verbal warning 5 Written warning 7 Personal improvement plan 10 Termination 12 The point system is an efficient way to inform workers of the consequences and disincentivize absenteeism. You can include particular issues for your manufacturing company or adjust the points. For example, if the workers are often showing delay, you can allot more points to discourage such behavior. 3. Communicate with your employees and explain the policy clearly Just putting up an attendance policy will not deliver the benefits you are looking for. It would help if you communicated the attendance expectations with the workers. The language of the attendance policy must be comprehensible to the workforce. Explain and include definitions of absenteeism, job abandonment, excused absences, unexcused absences, unpaid absences, and attendance policy exceptions. Manufacturing Attendance Policy Template We created this sample attendance policy for manufacturing companies to manage the workforce better. Disclaimer: While we put in our best efforts to create this sample attendance policy for a manufacturing company, it is not a standard template. This attendance policy template is supposed to be a reference document. To create the best attendance policy for manufacturing units, you will have to consider the nuances of your business and the policies best match the well-being of your workers. Free attendance policy template for manufacturing Company Employee Attendance Policy | | Overview We at have the policy to take attendance punctuality seriously. All employees are expected to be model workers reporting for work on time. Any late arrivals, absences, time theft incidents, and other attendance issues affect productivity and create an undue burden for the other honest and punctual employees. Attendance Policy Point System We have created a point system to encourage adherence to the company attendance policy. As shown below, each attendance infraction will result in a point or partial point. At the end of the period, the accumulated excessive points will result in disciplinary action. All workers are requested to review attendance infractions, definitions, and issues carefully to avoid repercussions. Tardiness Less than ten minutes late 0.5 Late Between ten minutes and two hours late 1 Partial shift Leaving work early 1.5 Truant Over two hours late 2 Absent Absent with a phone call 2.5 No-call, no-show Absent without a phone call 10 All workers must inform their supervisors in advance if they are absent from work. Attendance-Related Discipline Management and workers are to follow the rules laid down in this attendance policy, as attendance punctuality is a must for productivity and revenue. At , we have established disciplinary actions regarding ongoing attendance problems if identified. Please read the following disciplinary actions and their corresponding points carefully to avoid these disciplinary actions. Verbal warning 5 Written warning 7 Personal improvement plan 10 Termination 12 Attendance Policy Exceptions This attendance policy complies with federal, state, and local employment and labor laws. Here are some exceptions to our attendance policy. complies with the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) and will not take disciplinary action for employees absent for reasons of jury duty, bereavement, or military duty. Workers will be required to produce proper documentation to supervisors within 48 hours if they are absent for jury duty, bereavement, or military duty. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How can Truein help with attendance in the manufacturing industry? Truein is a robust cloud-based time and attendance system for manufacturing companies . It is a mobile attendance app that your workers can use directly from their smartphones. This AI-based face recognition attendance system offers the following features- Overtime calculation- Add overtime rules for your employees and the software will automatically process the overtime pay. Just ensure employees are clocking in and out properly Accurate time and attendance recording- Truein is a GPS-based attendance app and your employees can mark the attendance only from a particular geofenced location. It uses face recognition to mark the attendance which makes it more accurate and helps to avoid buddy punching and time theft . Attendance policy management- Employers can create and add multiple policies like attendance policy, paid time off policy , overtime policy, and many more from the Truein dashboard. Leave management – You can set up different types of leaves and rules for your employees in your organization. You can easily approve, track and manage leaves on our mobile app. Employee scheduling- Create a manual schedule for your employees or automate it by using our auto shift assign feature. Creating an attendance policy for a large workforce such as manufacturing is vital and is even more crucial for employees to understand and adhere to attendance policies. It is therefore important that company heads and HR teams involved in creating these policies have discussions both internally and with employees and refine and improve attendance policies from time to time. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? What Is Shift Swap Policy and How To Create It For Your Organization? How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Facility Management Time and Attendance »  					Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges Facility Management 101: Troubleshooting 5 Common Challenges July 25, 2024 Facility management is essential for some businesses more than others. For example, manufacturing, logistics, and construction are some sectors where facilities management is a significant component of the overall organizational management. Unsurprisingly, these are the sectors that frequently face facility management problems. Suppose your business is struggling with the commonly encountered issues. In that case, the problem might be that you cannot effectively appreciate and include facility management as one of your core business functions. Another reason can be incompetent management or a limited budget. Here we elaborate on the most common issues that result in facility management problems. We will also explore the solution to fix these issues. Let’s get started. Table of Contents 1. The increased cost of unplanned periodic expenses on maintenance 2. Multitasking and coordinating teams 3. Poor time management due to lack of real-time data 4. Maintenance of old equipment and facilities 5. Struggle managing technicians Conclusion 1. The increased cost of unplanned periodic expenses on maintenance Poor facility management can escalate the need for unplanned periodic maintenance, a considerable cost to the operating budget. Often the facility management cost does not factor in the building maintenance as it is prepared during the construction phase. It leaves facilities susceptible to frequent damage. Weather, wear and tear, excessive use, etc., affect the infrastructure within a facility, and the inability to routinely conduct checkups for any maintenance requirements can result in faults enforcing unplanned maintenance. It directly translates into increased operating costs. The fix Businesses must hire professional facility managers aware of the building maintenance requirements. Such managers have the technical know-how to deploy measures that facilitate the smooth functioning of operations within the facility by keeping a check on buildings and other utilities. It is essential to hire professional facility managers as they can perform tests on the efficiency and durability of the building equipment to ensure productivity or operations are never stalled. 2. Multitasking and coordinating teams Communication is essential to ensure facilities run smoothly. Still, one of the most commonly reported facilities management issues is that multitasking and coordinating teams are hectic and unmanageable. Such issues are common at facilities where teams still rely on manual methods to report failures and document other operational tasks. The fix It is relatively more straightforward to fix this facility management problem. For the constant flow of communication to streamline the organization, innovation, knowledge sharing, and productivity, you need to choose a centralized cloud-based facility management software. Such tools allow you to automate failure reporting and inventory management and generate automatized reports. It makes facility management incredibly simpler. Most facility managers are overwhelmed with handling all the tasks, so you need facility management software to allow them to be at the top of things. One example to facilitate multitasking and team coordination is implementing digital calendars to let workers and managers know their maintenance responsibilities and plan the workload accordingly. Another example is a labor attendance app used to manage attendance effectively. 3. Poor time management due to lack of real-time data Facility management is highly dynamic, and managers have to micromanage several daily processes, like coordinating teams, attending urgent communications, participating in meetings, consulting vendors, supporting customers, and much more. In most scenarios, these processes require managing workers within the facility. In the absence of real-time data, many facilities management issues arise. You cannot immediately decide on tasks when you don’t know where an employee is or how the shift is scheduled. You cannot plan or prioritize tasks. The fix For better facility management use of automated employee tracking software is beneficial. Truein is a time and attendance software backed with geofencing attendance system . It provides complete workforce attendance and shift management. Facility managers can ensure that employees are at the destined location during shifts. It also generates auto reports regarding overtime, absenteeism, leaves, and shift schedule efficiency, improving facility management services. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 4. Maintenance of old equipment and facilities Wear and tear of the facility building and equipment is inevitable. While you might have to replace the components of the facilities at some point, proper measures to maintain and prevent any damage to old gear and facilities can help prevent any severe damage. Poor maintenance of equipment results in facilities management issues that require a large budget to restore the facility’s state. Without planned maintenance, facilities can fall into a state of disrepair and lead to a poor standard for habitation. The fix As building structures and equipment become old and technical problems become frequent, facility managers need to plan ways to extend the life of existing assets following the allotted budget available for maintenance. Prevention, timely repair, and replacement of faulty components will ensure that maintenance costs are always within the proposed budget and that funds are always available for emergency repairs and replacements. Here again, facility management software tools can be utilized to evaluate and forecast the maintenance budget, accounting for worn-out equipment and buildings. 5. Struggle managing technicians Apart from facility managers, technicians are essential to keep things running smoothly. However, they can be a bit much to handle. A poorly managed facility makes tracking the technician’s performance and professionalism difficult. You will never know if a fault or accident occurred due to the poor state of facility equipment or improper technical repair. It puts a lot on facility owners, driving up the operation cost and making it difficult to sustain the business and deliver quality customer service. The fix You can also explore options to increase the budget to allow the right tools. If you face challenges with dishonest technicians, you can outsource the facility management. facility managers quickly identify incompetent technicians. This will ensure that you have the best facility management staff focusing on core business activities such that you get continuously high returns from facility management services. Conclusion The above-listed facility management problems occur in every organization. The solution to these problems is to approach facility management from a facility manager-centric perspective. Technology can quickly fix most facilities management issues by empowering employees to manage problems as they emerge. An integrated facility management software can aid your decision-making. Truein is one such app to easily manage workers within a facility through centralized control, real-time tracking, geofencing, and GPS tracking. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Distributed Team Common Challenges and Solutions California PTO Laws: All About California Law on PTO (Common Questions and Answers) 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form