Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					5 Attendance Punching Machine Drawbacks and Better Alternatives 5 Attendance Punching Machine Drawbacks and Better Alternatives July 23, 2024 Manual attendance timesheets are open to time theft, but an attendance punching machine is no better. Every year, attendance fraud costs companies over 28,00,000 crore . According to Zaheer Hussain, an HR expert in India running a six sigma consultancy, “Several statistics indicate that three out of four people don’t always report time on their attendance sheet accurately.” As companies focus on their core business operations, keeping track of attendance fraud becomes difficult. Many companies replace attendance timesheets with attendance punching machines. However, these attendance systems have limitations too. Buddy punching is a typical time theft fraud committed when a company uses an attendance punching machine. A better alternative is to use biometric punching machines that use human biological attributes to identify and record attendance. If your company still relies on an employee attendance punching machine, it is high time you see a replacement. This article will explore the disadvantages of using an attendance punching machine and offer a reliable alternative. Table of Contents What is the attendance punching machine? How does an attendance punching machine work? 5 Drawbacks of using an attendance punching machine 1. Prone to time theft activities like buddy punching 2. The ongoing cost of time cards 3. Frequent data entry errors 4. Limited employee management features 5. The additional cost of installing hardware 3 Alternatives of Attendance Punching Machine 1. Fingerprint Attendance System 2. Iris-Based Attendance System 3. Face Recognition Based Attendance System Truein: A Worthy Alternative to Attendance Punching Machine What is the attendance punching machine? An attendance punching machine is a system designed to verify a person’s identity and record time in and time out. Most punching devices use employee ID cards to access the company facility and record attendance. These cards have information such as employee ID, employee name, and other unique identifiers to accurately identify the person. Attendance punching machines are hardware-dependent and require the installation of ad hoc units at every location. Attendance punching machines can have several variants, but biometric versions such as a fingerprint punching machine are the most commonly used. While the card punching machines are easy to manipulate as there is no biometric information of the person needed to identify the identity, anyone with an employee ID card can mark the attendance for the person. This is the practice of buddy punching. While biometric punching machines that use fingerprints, iris, and hand measurements can drastically reduce attendance frauds, but they are not hygienic. In the post-pandemic era, we need attendance machines that can record time without physical contacts, such as a face recognition attendance system . Furthermore, fingerprint biometric attendance systems are less efficient for industries like mining and manufacturing. In such industries, workers usually have their fingers smudged in oil, grease, dirt, and sweat. It hinders fingerprint sensors for identification. How does an attendance punching machine work? An attendance punching machine’s objective is to collect data and mark employee attendance based on rules defined within the system. Depending on the model of the machine, attendance is recorded along with time automatically. The sensors are at the core of the employee attendance punching machine that identifies the person based on the input (ID card, fingerprints, iris, voice, etc.). Card-reading attendance punching machines have sensors that read the data on the chip embedded within the employee ID cards. The chip stores employee ID and name data to enable the punching machine to identify the person and record their attendance. A biometric punching machine is much more sophisticated with sensitive sensors. For instance, a fingerprint punching machine works on two levels. First, it records the employee’s fingerprint when they put their finger on the sensor. Second, the input is compared with the fingerprint models previously enrolled in the machine. For companies involved in fieldwork such as construction, manufacturing, and mining, face recognition attendance systems are best because they help overcome the drawback of attendance punching machines that we will explore next. Most modern-day attendance systems have highly robust features to track attendance and offer leave and payroll management. 5 Drawbacks of using an attendance punching machine 1. Prone to time theft activities like buddy punching The simplicity of an attendance punching machine provides an opportunity to abuse the system easily. Taking advantage of the employee attendance punching machine, workers can ask a colleague to punch for them in case they are running late or won’t be arriving at all. When this happens, the company is paying for the work that the employee is not doing. Such time theft costs companies millions of dollars every year. The only way to prevent buddy punching is to monitor the attendance punching machine for employee clocks in or out. This can create a lot of overhead for the HR managers and can drastically increase the cost of doing business. 2. The ongoing cost of time cards Unlike modern attendance systems like a facial recognition biometric attendance system, attendance punching machines use time cards. Companies need to purchase time cards constantly. This cost might be insignificant for smaller companies, but this cost can be substantially high for larger companies. 3. Frequent data entry errors A significant drawback of an attendance punching machine is manual data migration to the payroll system. After all the time card data is collected and processed by the punching machine, it must be shared with the payroll software to calculate salary and leave. Usually, a large volume of data needs to be entered into the payroll system. This is why the chances of entry errors are too high. 4. Limited employee management features As the attendance punching machines only record and process time logs for the employees, they are useless beyond that. The lack of reporting and analytics features makes them unfit for employee management. Ability to track employee leaves over time, create schedules, share policies, etc., are essential features. 5. The additional cost of installing hardware As mentioned before, biometric punching machines are standalone Adhoc units; you must install the hardware at every point you want to record employee attendance. It is costly and unfeasible for fieldwork employees or large work floors where employees are scattered. It is also not possible for field workers to mark their attendance with these systems. They will be limited to recording attendance on timesheets and submitting them to their supervisors. 3 Alternatives of Attendance Punching Machine 1. Fingerprint Attendance System It is the most popular attendance system and it uses fingerprint data to record attendance. Many organizations rely on fingerprint attendance systems to manage their workforce as they offered better security and automation as compared to attendance punching machines. But like any other method, this is not foolproof. Older people who are involved in labour using their hands may not be able to get their fingerprints recognized every time. 2. Iris-Based Attendance System The iris-based attendance system is one of the most reliable personal identification methods in biometrics. It is an automated method of biometric identification that uses mathematical pattern-recognition techniques on video images of the irises of an individual eye. It is one of the most accurate attendance systems but it is very costly as compared to other biometric attendance systems . 3. Face Recognition Based Attendance System Facial recognition attendance systems are contactless technologies that allow for no physical interaction between man and machine. It uses facial recognition technology for identifying and verifying a person. The system uses advanced algorithms that can locate faces and identify them automatically, so there is no need for any human intervention. Facial recognition makes it easy to track employees’ time and is less expensive than other attendance systems. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Truein: A Worthy Alternative to Attendance Punching Machine Truein is a modern face recognition attendance system that uses AI to provide one of the most secure and versatile solutions. It is a cloud-based attendance system that is hardware-free. Employees can download the Truein app ( Android / iOS ) on their smartphones to mark their attendance. It gives the feature to record attendance through their phones. But the real benefit is for employers, as they can use the GPS attendance system to set geofencing and GPS rules for tracking employees when they mark their attendance. Truein offers a complete set of employee management tools such as leave management , attendance policy, overtime management, shift scheduling, and many more. Attendance punching machines are a tool of the past. As the evolution in the industry has made futuristic solutions like Truein. Schedule a free demo and see how upgrading from a old generation attendance punching machine can help to improve security, automation, and reliability. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why Automatic Scheduling Is Better Than Regular Scheduling? Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Account Setup 21 Can I manage notifications? What is the difference between the entry point and the attendance point? At what distance should one stand to register their face in the attendance system? Can we bulk upload staff photos during registration or onboarding? How do I set up various policies of my organization? How can I create new sites? How to use workforce plan? Can there be more than one admin? Does all admins login using the same primary admin’s login credentials? How many sites can you create? Can we add employees and use all options during the trial period? How can I add time zone of different country? Can we send user app invite on email instead of mobile? How will my active users be counted for billing? How to change my company’s logo? How to enable notification summary email? How to change the Attendance summary email time? How to Setup Truein User App? Where I can do organization related settings? How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Truein Terminology Guide General Support 70 Can Truein capture group attendance? What kind of analytics is available on the User App? What kind of analytics is available on the Web Dashboard? How far should a staff member stand from the kiosk for attendance? What if an employee changes time on mobile for spoofing attendance time? What to do if I get out of location error? How can employee login if his mobile number changes? Can staff view their attendance details? Can a staff member take attendance using another staff member’s mobile? How to log out from the kiosk device if the Kiosk App has been uninstalled? What are the support hours or the hours during which we can contact the support team if any help is required? How to log a ticket for any issues? For how long does the system retain our data? Can staff access the Truein mobile application (Truein User App) after they leave an organization? What different attendance modes are available in Truein? We have frequently changing contract workers. Can our security team add staff from the kiosk device? I can’t log in to my mobile user app. The message I am getting is – “No Records Found.” How do I log in? Can my site supervisor or security team view daily attendance details on the kiosk device? Can employee mark Multiple In-Out? Without Punching “In” ,Can I try to Punch “Out”? In touchless mode, how much time does a staff member need to wait to punch Out after punching In? Can the staff retake their onboarding photo? How? Can I deactivate a staff member to prevent them from marking attendance for a few days? Can we delete staff? Is it necessary to recreate a staff member’s record if it is deleted? Can we get attendance data of deleted employee records? Can I restrict employees to take attendance from specific kiosk device? If yes, How to set it up? How many kiosk devices can be added? Why is my attendance being recorded as offline? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? Can employees punch multiple times? After how much time can I punch Out after punch In? Can I download alerts? Where can I check for spoofing alerts? Does employee also receive spoofing alert? What is the reason for the employee’s deactivation? Why is the attendance status Forgot Out displayed? How to add new users when it shows user license limit has reached? How do I check the User App version? How do we check if attendance marked offline has synced once the internet is back? Will my employees attendance be restricted if there is no network connection? Where do we check for the activation key of a kiosk? What can be done if we get an error message saying, “Activation key is already in use in another device”? How do we resend an invite to a staff member? How can I create new sites? Where can i find my monthly active users usage summary? How to setup Jobs/Projects? Where to check multiple in-out attendance of employee? How can my staff apply for leave if they don’t have mobile or User App access? How to Reset Password? How to update the staff mode? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? If Truein is able to detect duplicate faces? Meaning if someone tries to register their face for two different user names, will Truein recognize that? What does the ‘Status’ and ‘Sub status’ fields represent? What is pay rate structure? How to set up a pay rate structure for my organization? What is Activity punch feature? How to download staff data? What options are available on Dashboard home page? How can I book a meeting to discuss my queries? What is the difference between “Deactivate” and “Delete”? Can we limit attendance done by contractor agency? How to take other staff attendance who does not have a smartphone? How can we get the old attendance data of deleted staff? How to change my image in Truein Can I update base site using bulk upload? Can we deactivate a site? Will the user be notified if there is a change in the weekly off? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? Geofencing 8 What to do if I get out of location error? What are the steps to set up Geofencing locations? Can we set up Geofencing in multiple locations for employees? What is the minimum and maximum attend radius when adding a location? Can we map multiple geo fencing locations to single staff? Do you show some notification/alert to admin if any employee is going out the geofencing radius? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? Leaves 41 Can the admin apply for leave on behalf of staff? How to set up leave types? How to allot or grant leaves to staff? How to approve or reject leave application? Can staff change the leave dates after they have applied for leave? If a staff member has applied for leave and if the same is approved, can it be rolled back? Where can a manager see the current status of a staff member’s leave application? How do you change the leave policies for any specific leave type? How can I extract the leave balance report of a staff member? Where can I see the leave transactions or the leave history of a staff member? How to setup and apply for compensatory off? How to migrate the leave balance of my staff to Truein? How can I set up holidays and weekly off? Can we apply sandwich rule for leaves? How can my staff apply for leave? Is it possible to send a leave email notification to someone who is not a system user? Is it possible to delete approved or applied leave records from the system? Is there an option to allot leaves to the staff only after their probation period ends? How to set up multi-level leave approval? Can we add or transfer the existing leave balance in Truein? Are leaves allotted on a proration basis? Can managers approve leave for their staff? Does the admin get a notification via email for leave requests? Can my staff apply for leave if they have a zero balance? How do I set different weekly-off for my staff? Why is my staff unable to apply for leave? How to delete a public holiday? Where can I check for the status of a leave applied by a staff member? How do I check if a staff member has applied for leave? How to set up leave policies? How to setup Time off (Leave) Module on new site? Can we setup flexi holidays? Need to allot Sick leaves at once for the year, casual leaves on half yearly basis. How can I do it? How to allot comp off leaves? How to reduce/deduct existing leave balance for staff? How to give leave eligibility after probation period? How can I assign weekly off to staff? Will the user know the upcoming holidays? How to define time off (leave) categories and assign to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? Reports 12 Is it possible to customize reports? How do I setup only a certain fields in reports? How to download late comer report? How to download global report or all sites reports? I am unable to generate any reports in the proper format (R1). Cannot see any employees name and corresponding details. How to get total working hours in a month Report? Which report should be downloaded to check attendance regularization? Can I download deleted staff report ? I want to view multiple entry and exits by staff. Which report should I download? How to download consolidated attendance report of all sites? How to download reports? How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? Shifts 15 How to create and schedule shifts for my employees ? How to bulk assign shifts ? How shift assignment will happen if an employee changes shift? If my employee punches out of his shift, Would his attendance be rejected? Is it possible to assign shifts based on the roster? How can we assign different shift timings as per different Department/Category in bulk? How does auto shift assign work? If the grace period is 15 minutes and the employee has punched in for one of two shifts, which shift will be assigned? If a worker punches in for a job/shift that is not assigned to him/her, what will happen? Will the user be notified if the shift changes? Can I assign shift on department or category level? How will it show if staff in one shift needs to continue to work in the next shift? Can a staff work for two consecutive shifts? In that case, how does shift allocation work? What does grace time in shifts mean? Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? Integration 1 Employee Setup, Onboarding 35 How to bulk upload staff details? How do you add staff members one by one? How to change or edit staff details? How do we delete or remove a staff member who leaves the organization? How to reactivate a deactivated staff member? How do I upload staff documents? Can I transfer staff from one location to another? How to setup multiple locations for staff? How to bulk invite staff to sign up for User App access? Can I invite a single staff member to sign up for User App access? How to onboard new employees? How do you onboard the staff from the kiosk? How can employees self onboard themselves using their own mobile? I don’t want my staff to take their attendance using the Truein User App on their mobile. Can they use the App just to view their attendance? How can I set up a reporting hierarchy or assign roles to the staff? How to assign a manager to a staff member? Can an admin also be a manager for their reporting staff? Can onboarding photos be uploaded from the admin dashboard? My onboarding photo is not clear. How can I retake it? I am getting an incorrect user-ID/password error during login. How to resolve it? I am getting “No Access to take Attendance” when I try to take attendance. What should I do? Is it possible to change a staff member’s role? How to set the time zone for a staff member? How to update the staff mode? How to bulk edit staff details? How to add a staff member as a global admin in the system? Can I send the app signup message manually to staff in case they don’t receive the signup SMS? My staff didn’t receive the signup OTP SMS. How can I resend it? How to setup Managers in Truein? Does Global Admin have more access than Admin? Once we add a user with an email address, does the user get an automatic email with their login info? What kind of roles are available to assign to my staff ? How to add contractor Agency? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? What will be the login credentials for staff? Regularization 10 Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can managers regularize their employees attendance? Why can’t I regularize my attendance? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can I apply for regularization (manual edit IN/OUT Time) for multiple punches on the same day? Can admin update time on behalf of staff incase of missed punch? We do not want to give regularization option to users, can we restrict it? How to remove/reject an employees’s attendance? How to disable regularization request? How to reject approved Regularization request? User App 19 How do I grant my employees access to the User App? How can a user reset his password on the User App? Can I take my attendance from other’s phone? Can I check my Weekly Off on User App? Can I change Weekly Off for my employees from User App? How to apply and approve regularization requests from User App? Can we set an alert to punch in on the User App at a specific time? How do I setup attendance reminder notification? How do I take attendance using another staff member’s phone using their credentials? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How can I request break time to my admin? How can I approve my employee’s break time? How will the user know the steps to login in user app and start attendance? Can attendance be taken when phone is not connected to Internet? What is Take Other Staff Attendance in User App? How can I set notification alert to my User App for doing Clock in / Clock Out? Can Admin get alerts in his user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? Kiosk App 21 Is there a provision to add more than one kiosk device? How to add slider images on the kiosk? How to change the activation key in the kiosk device? How to disable geofencing on kiosk? Where can I set my company logo for KIOSK? Can a mobile phone be used as a kiosk device? Does the kiosk app have to be active 24/7? We dont want to add staff from kiosk app, can we disable this? Can we use same activation key in 2 kiosk devices? If kiosk app is set default on device, screen will be on for whole day or it will go on sleep mode? Can I use one KIOSK for many jobs? Can I make KIOSK touchless by default? Can I geofence a KIOSK? Can I add one KIOSK to multiple sites? Do I have to give access to each staff for using KIOSK? Can we restrict face re-registration (retake registration photo) on kiosk? Can we set separate kiosk devices for IN and OUT? How to setup Kiosk App? Can we setup a consent for staff before face registration from the Kiosk device? Will Activity Punch be recorded in the offline mode? What is PIN based attendance and how to set it up in Truein Kiosk devices? Policies 21 I need to mark overtime/extra-time based on staff’s working hours on daily/weekly basis. How can I do it? (Overtime policies) How to add policies on different categories? If policies are updated in middle of the month, will it update for previous days as well? Can I apply policy on an Individual staff ? How to delete the policies? Can I add same policy to multiple departments? Why my auto clock out is happening after 16 hours ? Can we setup a policy where staff record gets deleted after X days of absence? Can we apply restriction to punch In and punch Out time? Can we add comp off if staff has worked on weekly off? We want to apply policy only for specific shift employees not for all, do we have provision like this? How is overtime calculated in Truein What will happen if my staff forgets to clock out? (Forgot out/Auto out policy) I need indication of late mark if staff clocks-in after shift grace time or after regular working hours. How can I do it? (Late Mark policies) Will I get any indication if my staff works on week-off or holidays ? (Weekly off and Holiday policies) What happens if my staff is absent for a long duration? (long absence, auto deactivate policies) Can I restrict my staff’s clock-in/clock-out outside their defined working hours or their defined shift schedule? (Restrict clock in/out policy) Some of my staff clocks in before their scheduled time. Can I set their shift start time as Clock-In Time in such case? Can I setup rule to round off working hours to the nearest 15 mins ? (Rounding policies) Can I restrict the number of attendance regularizations for staff? How to setup such that Admin receives alert for Missed activity Punch after clocking in? Roles 1 What is the difference between Admin and Global Admin? Home Truein Help and Support Regularization Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? Can I regularize (manually update in/out time) employee’s attendance ? In case your employee forgot to punch out (clock out) or your employee missed both in and out punch (clock in/out), then admins or managers can manually update their timesheets. It can be done in two ways Option 1: One by one You can regularize employee attendance timing as required in the following steps: Go to the ‘Day’ tab in the Web Dashboard and Select Date. Note: The date should always be a previous day’s date Search for the respective employee > Click on the three dots in the ‘Status’ column Select Regularize, Edit In Time/Edit Out Time as required and update accordingly. Option 2: Bulk update You can regularize attendance in bulk from Web Dashboard. Go to Alerts and Approvals, then Select Regularization Approval -> Bulk Employee Attendance Regularization. You need the download the sample excel file, Populate the below-mentioned details and Upload. Emp Id Clock In Date (YYYY-MM-DD) Clock In Time (HH:MM:SS) Clock Out Date (YYYY-MM-DD) Clock Out Time (HH:MM:SS) Once excel is uploaded, all the updates will be visible in the Timesheet as well as Reports. Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form