Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					How to Track Employee Absences? How to Track Employee Absences? May 28, 2024 As a manager, you are responsible for managing teams and their schedules. The inability to properly track employee absences can result in more labor costs. In some industries like manufacturing, construction, and mining, it is challenging to track absentees when you are not aware if they are present onsite or not. These are some reasons your company needs a solid strategy to track team member absences. In this article, we will cover some tips on how to track employee absences. Table of Contents What is employee absence tracking? Why is tracking employee absences important? Here are some essential reasons why you must track absenteeism in the workplace. 1. Helps to manage payroll and pay employees accurately 2. The total attendance taken is transparent for both employees and employers 3. You can easily schedule shifts if the employee is not available How to track employee absences 1. A centralized telephone number where employees call and inform about their absence 2. Using messaging to inform about leaves 3. Using attendance management software Conclusion What is employee absence tracking? Employee absence tracking is what it sounds like, a way to track absences and late arrivals of workers at work. It is an essential aspect of workforce management to ensure that workers adhere to the attendance policy . Employee absence tracking is also necessary for controlling overtime and shift scheduling issues. Modern-day absence tracking is not manual, and automated tools are available that will help you to better track your employees, such as Truein. But we will discuss employee absence tracking tools in a while; before that, we will explore why your company must ensure effective absence tracking. Why is tracking employee absences important? For workforce management, you must regularly track your employees’ time, attendance, and absences. For a strong work culture, your company must have clear guidelines about absenteeism . Also, there must be open communication channels between workers, supervisors, and managers. Here are some essential reasons why you must track absenteeism in the workplace. 1. Helps to manage payroll and pay employees accurately Absenteeism is directly associated with payroll. If you are not accurately tracking employee absences, you risk paying employees for hours they have not worked. Accurate pay is vital for both the company and the employees. All employees must receive a fair wage for the work they do. For companies, it implies that there will be extra labor costs and overtime compensation. A resilient attendance tracking system is how you can efficiently track employee absences. Choose an employee absence tracking system that integrates with the organization’s payroll software for calculating employee salaries. 2. The total attendance taken is transparent for both employees and employers When you have the correct attendance data, you can maintain employee transparency. There is no hidden information or confusion regarding the pay received or action taken. Automated employee absence tracking provides complete data about the leaves taken, paid time off left, and any attendance penalty points given to workers. The same data is visible to employees too. This gives them a feeling of being in control of managing their time off. When you make the attendance data transparent, workers can balance their work and life and make up for any lapses when required. 3. You can easily schedule shifts if the employee is not available Shift schedule is badly affected if there is frequent workforce absenteeism. When you properly track employee absences, you can avoid last-minute changes to the shifts. It gives you enough time to look for a replacement and arrange for other employees to fill in the gaps. Properly planning shift schedules is how you can maintain the work balance and ensure no worker is overworked or burned out. According to the National Safety Council, overworked workers are the most susceptible to accidents . Shifts must allow employees to work without compromising their physical or mental health. In most cases, overexertion is a leading cause of work-related injuries in companies. Now that you understand how important it is to track employee absences let’s find out the best ways. How to track employee absences 1. A centralized telephone number where employees call and inform about their absence By setting up a centralized phone number for reporting absences, you can direct all calls to one place. This will save supervisors and managers from getting texts and calls throughout the day and reduce productivity. While a straightforward solution is how to track employee absences, a central phone line will still require HR to go through the calls. The call records can be filled quickly if you have a large workforce with hundreds or thousands of employees. No matter how automated the system is, in the end, a human has to verify the calls. It’s time-consuming, costly, and not sustainable for more than a few dozen employees. 2. Using messaging to inform about leaves A more approachable communication medium is texting about the leaves to inform supervisors or managers on popular apps like WhatsApp and Telegram. The problem with this solution is how every worker will be skilled enough to use messaging apps on their phones. Also, not everyone will be comfortable using or downloading apps mandated by the employer. For the managers, keeping track of the messages and updating the shift schedule rooster will be tedious. Furthermore, no paper trail will spell trouble for record keeping and tracking employee absences. 3. Using attendance management software For any business, irrespective of its industry or size, attendance management software is the best solution to track absenteeism in the workplace. Truein is a hardwareless employee time and attendance tracking software . It is a cloud-based attendance system that can be deployed on workers’ smartphones allowing them to request leave online. The managers are notified about the request and who can approve or reject it. Truein offers complete attendance data management, including leave management , overtime, paid time off, and holidays. You can also create and share attendance policy within the Truein dashboard. It also offers geofencing and GPS targeting to ensure that workers are present when they record their attendance at the assigned spot. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion If you want your business to run smoothly, you cannot rely on manual methods to track employee absences. Don’t spend time wondering how to track absenteeism in the workplace; deploy a reliable and cloud-based attendance management software like Truein to easily manage employee time and attendance. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) How To Track Employee Time and Attendance? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					Compensatory Off: Everything That You Need To Know About It Compensatory Off: Everything That You Need To Know About It May 20, 2024 Famously called comp time, comp leave, or comp off, this leave is undoubtedly one of a kind. While the other leaves are accumulated with time, comp leaves are earned through working extra hours on days offs, holidays, etc. Compensatory off is the leave that is awarded as compensation to the employees who work extra for some hours or days. This type of leave enables people to encash the leaves when required in exchange for overtime that they have earned by working extra. Companies with a comp off policy compensate the employees in the form of PTO or paid time off as the alternative to paying time and a half in overtime pay. It is thus essential to understand what time and a half are. It is 50 percent more than what a worker gets as regular pay. This means that the company is liable to pay the worker his usual salary and an extra half of that for each overtime hour he works. It might sound challenging, but overtime policy pay can be calculated by multiplying the regular pay by 1.5. Table of Contents What is Compensatory off? Types of Compensatory Leave 1. Overtime compensatory leave 2. National holiday and weekend compensatory leave Who is eligible for compensatory off? For how many days is compensatory off valid? Why Comp off was created? How to draft your Compensatory leave policy? Compensatory Off Rules Conclusion What is Compensatory off? The term’ compensatory off’, also called compensatory leave, compensatory time, or Comp hours, is the right of employees to take paid time off when they work overtime like on holidays, for extra hours, etc. Such a leave allows the employees to take off with pay in place of the overtime pay when they have worked under situations like holidays, a scheduled day off, overtime hours, or when the office is closed. It would help if you remembered that compensatory leave works differently from other leaves as the time off is accrued, hour by hour. This means that for each hour of overtime the employee works, one hour of comp time is given. So the main idea is that the company compensates the employees with paid leaves rather than giving overtime pay. Types of Compensatory Leave While the various types of compensatory leaves are like in how they function, the situations in which hours may be provided vary. 1. Overtime compensatory leave It is awarded when the employee chooses paid leave instead of overtime pay. For example, if the employee works 8 hours overtime, they can take 8 hours of paid time off on another date. 2. National holiday and weekend compensatory leave Employees who work on a national holiday or a weekend for any reason are allowed to take time off at a later date. Who is eligible for compensatory off? Only the employees who have worked for at least 40 hours in the previous week are granted compensatory offs. Employees may even take half of the Comp off if needed to work for extra 3 hours or more after their actual work time on any given day. Only the employees who have worked for at least 40 hours in the previous week are granted compensatory offs. Employees may even take half of the Comp off if needed to work for extra 3 hours or more after their actual work time on any given day. There are 4 primary groups of employees that are qualified for Comp offs under the factory law- Salary paying personnel Public sector workers, including central and state government employees Non-exempt workers who put in less than 40 hours a week like during a vacation when they are compensated but don’t take are not free from the overtime pay. Workers in some states like Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat For how many days is compensatory off valid? Deciding the limit for Comp off validity depends on the company. There is no set number of days that the Indian government stipulates. Most organizations prefer making compensatory leaves available for around 30 days, as mentioned above. Why Comp off was created? Compensatory offs can be said to be the method to attract employees into giving their best, both in return for compensation as well as appreciation. Before the making of compensation in form of payments or offs, there were a lot of grievances that plagued the employees. They were overexploitation, meager salary, and health issues. All such grievances started resulting in impacts such as anger issues, loss of interest in work, and disagreement among employers and employees. Lack of interest further resulted in situations where workers refused to put in additional efforts, leading to the company’s degradation. It additionally led to employee strikes and protests to get their rights. So, after much negotiation, it was decided to offer the employees extra leaves or cash to compensate for their efforts and the company’s development. How to draft your Compensatory leave policy? Before making a comp-off policy, it is crucial to create and communicate a clear policy to reduce any confusion. Clearly mention the criteria for Comp off eligibility that must adhere to legal restrictions Mention in which form or case the compensatory off will be fulfilled When setting the parameters for a comp off, the employer should determine how long the employees have to use the leave Documenting the policy and then reviewing it with legal personnel is a must to ensure that it complies with the laws. It is also essential to train the managers to use the policy fairly. So, before adopting a comp leave, a policy must be established. It is simple for employees and employers to know the expectations when the policy is written clearly and conveyed well. Also, when drafting the leave policy, public companies must meet all criteria. For example, the company and the association must agree to the Comp off policy if a union is involved. Deciding the eligibility – When the employer decides who qualifies for the leave, it is essential to consider the current legal limitations. The exempt workers working more than 40 hours a week will get Comp off from the employer. Will these employees require permission to get the Comp off in advance? Will the non-exempt workers qualifying criteria be different from the exempt workers? Calculation – It is also essential to establish the payment method for the Comp off. Will you give compensatory leave at an hourly price or some set price? How you will record the comp time is another concern. Is it a component of your HR software? Do you need to have supervisors keep a tab on it? Other parameters – You must also set restrictions on how to use the comp time. How long may the employees use the compensatory leave? Will there be a limit on the number of hours of comp time one may accumulate? Is there any limitation on when the Comp off may be used? Review and Training – You need to ensure that you record the policy with legal help to achieve the goal within the jurisdiction. It would help if you also guaranteed that your approach is used appropriately throughout the company and the management is well-taught about it. Compensatory Off Rules Workers who work on public holidays are compensated by taking off the next day or through a time equal to their working hours if they come to work. The same rule applies to the workers who work on weekends, as long as they are at work. If a public holiday or a weekly off falls on your work travel, you will be provided with a half-day Comp off. Also note that if you are traveling on a weekly off or a public holiday, it will not be taken as a working day and you will not get the Comp leave. Compensatory time is only provided for the time spent at the site or with clients. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion In all, compensatory leaves have multiple benefits. The employers get saved from paying the added overtime salaries for the benefit of improved employee efficiency. Also, the worker gains an extra day off, maintaining that professional and personal balance. In retrospect, one may say that comp leaves are surely a win-win situation where the employer and the employee are satisfied with the overall negotiation and policy rules. You can make policies for your employees using the Truein app. The policy can be made for employees working on weekends or holidays, and they will automatically get the Comp off. You can further create the rule for overtime if the worker works for extended hours, they will get a compensatory leave. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Paid Time Off (PTO) Guide- Everything you need to know about what’s PTO Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws DuPont Work Schedule: Everything You Should Know! Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					8-Hour Shift Schedule For 7 Days A Week 8-Hour Shift Schedule For 7 Days A Week March 31, 2024 Many companies operate around the clock, and the traditional 9 AM to 5 PM schedule is not sustainable for such businesses. Running a business 24 hours a day is quite an undertaking that demands excellent workforce management and, at the same time, flexibility for the staff members. Such organizations often have rotating shifts to meet their staffing demands. Managers can meet the production or service goals while allowing employees to learn about different aspects of the business by creating an efficient 8-hour shift schedule for seven days a week. A business that operates 24 hours requires managers to have excellent leadership, foresight, and planning. If you struggle with creating an 8-hour, 7-day work schedule, this article is for you. We are about to discuss the 8-hour rotating shift schedule and how it can create a sustainable and productive work environment. Table of Contents What is a rotating 8-hour shift schedule? 8-hour 7-day work schedule: Pros Pros for Employees Pros for Employers How to keep track of an 8-hour, 7-day work schedule? Conclusion What is a rotating 8-hour shift schedule? A rotating 8-hour shift schedule provides 24/7 coverage for any business by ensuring enough workers are available for the job without increasing their work hours to more than 40 hours per week. Such a schedule maximizes the number of consecutive days employees have off to allow them enough rest and time to spend with their family and friends. There are several ways to implement the 8-hour shift schedule for 7-days a week, such as a simple 8-hour day schedule, 8-hour swing schedule, and 8-hour night shifts. The rotating 8-hour schedule depends on your business and your industry. It’s about maximizing the schedule for efficiency to benefit employees and employers. Construction, manufacturing, restaurant and hospitality businesses often have rotating 8-hour shifts. If you are an industry veteran, you might be aware of the pros of rotating shift schedules, but if you are new to the concept, pay attention to the next section. 8-hour 7-day work schedule: Pros Maintaining 8-hour shift schedules can benefit both the employee and the employer. Understanding the intricacies of maintaining an 8-hour shift schedule for 7-days a week can help shift managers fully exploit these advantages. Let’s look at how such a rotating 8-hour shift schedule benefits employees. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Pros for Employees The 8-hour, 7-day work schedule is fairer for employees as the workload is evenly distributed with enough time off. The rotating shifts allow employees to have two days off in a row, that is, one weekend every week. This gives them ample opportunity to take care of their personal lives and spend time with their families. And it also contributes to their overall well-being and stability. Employees working 8-hour night shifts can have three days off after working seven consecutive nights. This added advantage of one more off provides them an incentive to work at night. An 8-hour, 7-day work schedule rotates consistently, so employees know when they are working, as the schedule changes only once a week. It avoids any confusion or last moment changes in the program. Such a schedule offers excellent work/life balance. It contributes to the employees’ productivity and encourages them to give their best at work. Pros for Employers Evidently, with an 8-hour shift schedule for 7-days a week, you can run business operations for 24 hours. The rotating shift schedule allows round-the-clock coverage with as few as four employees. If you have cost savings scheduling fewer employees helps reduce labor costs. It is also much easier for shift managers to schedule rotating shifts as they don’t change frequently. Your workers are never overworked, and there is no burnout. It reduces the possibility of accidents or errors as workers have a better attention span, reaction time, motor skills, and fewer memory lapses. This makes them better decision-makers compared to 12-hour shifts, where employees are often overworked and exhausted. The 8-hour shift schedule for 7-days a week simplifies scheduling, resulting in fewer missed alerts or communication breakdowns with the workers due to excessive shift changes. The fewer shift changes also prevent operational slowdowns. How to keep track of an 8-hour, 7-day work schedule? To truly incentivize your 8-hour, 7-day work schedule, you must be able to track employee time and attendance and shift schedule efficiently. Truein can provide a one-stop solution for tracking 8-hour rotating shift schedules. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less time and attendance system that offers advanced shift scheduling features . Truein utilizes AI-based facial recognition technology to identify and record employees’ attendance. As a software product, it can be deployed anywhere with ease. Your workers can download the Truein app on their phones to see shift schedule, record attendance, request leaves, regularize attendance, and more. It also features automatic alerts and reporting functionality to facilitate shift scheduling. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate shift schedules in your organization. Conclusion With an 8-hour shift schedule for 7-days a week, companies can sustain 24-hours operation without stressing the workers. As a manager, you are responsible for choosing the appropriate 8-hour rotating shift model according to your organization’s business model. It would help if you used a tool like Truein to track shifts and make data-driven decisions. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Create 24-Hour Shift Schedules? Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively Understand the Split Shift Schedule: Effective Strategies, Benefits and Challenges Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form