Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Role: Enterprise Account Executive (B2B SaaS Sales) Location: Baner, Pune This is onsite (In Office) role with some flexibility for work for home About Us: Truein is a fast growing B2B SaaS product company, offering Attendance & Timesheet solutions to the companies with Contractual and Distributed workforce. 500+ customers across the globe now believe in what we do and have embarked on this journey with us. At Truein, we are on a mission to bring transparency and controls in the time & attendance process. We leverage Face recognition and AI technologies. We are backed by Investors and a high potential team of 30 people and growing. Our Culture: At Truein, we genuinely care about every member we hire. You’ll learn new things regardless of your experience level. We strongly believe in creating value for all stakeholders – our employees, customers, and investors. We foster ownership, and have a dynamic, fun and vibrant startup culture. o 40% off Lite Plan Up to 90 users up to 100 users Key Features up to 100 users Face recognition based & Touchless Attendance via Kiosk app (tablet/mobile) at entrance Geo-fenced attendance via User app User/Admin app (Android, iOS) Admin web dashboard Attendance policies/compliance Multiple reports and Analytics 1 year of attendance historic data accessible Contract Workers attendance Offline attendance mode Start a Free Trial Get a Free Trial Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Responsibilities: Develop a thorough understanding of our product offerings and target segment to better serve the clients. Attending inbound customer inquiries. Identifying and developing new sales opportunities. Contacting potential customers on LinkedIn, via phone calls and emails. Conduct demo meetings and help customers choose the right offering. Handle objections, negotiate and win new customers. Leverage partners to meet assigned revenue goals. Required: 4 to 8 years of Enterprise sales experience with a minimum 2 years in SaaS. Previous experience in HR-tech Sales. Ambitious, result-oriented and has a great attention to detail. Strong convincing skills with active listening ability. Effective communication skills. Good to have: Solution or consultative sales experience Has worked at growth stage startup Experience dealing with International customers Education background of Computer Engineering and MBA You will get: Competitive compensation package and benefits. Work closely with founders and be part of a truly amazing team. Join a fast-growing startup early, make a difference and enjoy the ride. How to Apply: If you’re looking for a role at a purpose-driven, high-growth start-up, then this is the gig for you. Please send your resume to teamup@truein.com . Truein is an equal opportunity employer. We celebrate diversity and are committed to creating an inclusive environment for all employees. Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin © 2022 Truein | All rights reserved 2022 Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice jatinb Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Why do you need automated attendance system for your ‘contract staff’? Why do you need automated attendance system for your ‘contract staff’? June 21, 2024 Do you hire contract staff on hourly, daily or fixed contract wages? Such staff is not permanent and they change too frequently to invest in proper attendance protocols. Often companies don’t even create RFID cards. Contract staff attendance is almost always done manually with a register and pen. It may not seem like a huge problem first. However, when you calculate the leakages it causes in the system and the financial impact of it, it becomes an issue worth looking into. Table of Contents Why is manual attendance not the right way to go? 1. Buddy punching: 2.Manual attendance overheads: 3. Monthly report generation: 4. Reconciliation: Face attendance is the solution to all manual attendance woes 1. Easy onboarding: 2. Mobile-based selfie attendance: 3. Extreme transparency: 4. Contract agency tracking: 5. Quick deactivation: Switch to face attendance systems Why is manual attendance not the right way to go? 1. Buddy punching: In case of manual attendance, there is no way to really check or backcheck who was present. Friends often punch attendance for each other. So, you might have only 100 contract staff present on a particular day but you may be paying for 120. If you extrapolate this for the entire year, the annual cheque for leakages may be huge. 2.Manual attendance overheads: Manual attendance is just what the name says – powered by people. People need to watch over the attendance process and be vigilant when the contract staff is signing the register. You need people to manually tally all the attendance and feed it into the computer. You need more people to compile it and create reports for the management or payroll. The entire process is tedious and takes manpower for the management of it. All these easily add up to your expenses. 3. Monthly report generation: There is no way you can know attendance aggregates of your contract staff on a daily basis because somebody will have to compile it. That means you won’t be able to drive compliances or enforce rules. By the time you come to know about gaps, it will be month end. Most companies build a frequency of monthly reports for report generation. It is only at month end that you see the tally of attendance across offices and across regions. Decisions, finances – everything has to wait. 4. Reconciliation: There is a minimum loss of 5 mandays, spent only on the reconciliation or compilation of manual attendance registers across offices or regions. It is not just about time loss; it is about money loss too. Manual compilations are prone to errors and even a digit error can be an entire day’s worth salary lost or gained. Face attendance is the solution to all manual attendance woes 1. Easy onboarding: Contract staff may change frequently. So what? You can onboard them in no time with extreme ease on a face attendance system like Truein. You can upload all contract staff in bulk using excel on the web dashboard You can upload them individually on the web dashboard You can take advantage of the self-onboarding feature of Truein. The contract staff can upload their selfie and get going with daily attendance . 2. Mobile-based selfie attendance: If your contract staff is always travelling for sales-like roles, you can ask him to lock his attendance through his very own phone and the Truein app. If you have a construction site, the workers don’t need a kiosk to mark attendance. Outdoor sites can ensure compliance through selfie-based mobile attendance . Remote site? No problem. Truein works offline too. 3. Extreme transparency: You know who is in and who is not on a real-time basis on your Truein app. You don’t have to wait until the month-end to see loopholes or compliance issues. Take action now and on a daily basis. Because the system records face attendance, there is no scope for buddy punching . Face is the best ID, afterall. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 4. Contract agency tracking: You can track agency-wise attendance of contract staff. That way the hiring agency can be held accountable for meeting the required numbers and sending sincere staff. It is possible to share the tracking with the agency through user-level access and app access. There can be meaningful discussion around real numbers. 5. Quick deactivation: If a contract worker is absent for too long, he can be deactivated from the system. You can easily blacklist or block troublesome workers too. If a worker is on vacation and comes back later, you don’t have to go through the onboarding process again. His previous profile can be reactivated. Switch to face attendance systems There is no entry barrier to this upgrade. You don’t have to install large machines or set up any infrastructure. Truein works on any mobile or tablet. Say goodbye to age-old manual attendance. Manual attendance costs you more than you think! Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 21, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 21, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 21, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 21, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 21, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein With Truein Time and Attendance Reports , get powerful insights at your fingertips! Monitor your staff's productivity, discover trends, and attain clarity. Try it for Free! Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Turn Raw Data into Insightful Reports With Truein, you can instantly transform your raw clock in data into intuitive reports and dashboards and use it to gather information about attendance patterns, staff punctuality, absence trends, and leave usage. The reports and dashboards also help achieve transparency and uncover potential solutions. Monitor Staff Productivity Use our daily, weekly, or monthly timesheets to track your staff's productivity. With multiple filtering options, you can improve staff attendance and time utilization, evaluate time spent on different tasks or projects, and analyze time and attendance patterns over time. Get Powerful Insights to make Informed Decisions Extract the exact information you need with our advanced filtering options and gain powerful insights about your workforce. Get information on the leaves taken, early check in/outs, breaks taken, late marks, and more through time & attendance report in realtime. Additionally, you can filter the information by date, project, client name, staff name, and other relevant criteria. Advanced Analytics for your Staff and Management Truein's advanced analytics is designed to address the needs of both your staff and management. For instance, while the staff gets insights about their leave data (leave types, leave balance, etc.), the management gets access to the department-level leave data. Automated Timeclock Policies and Reports Set late marks, half-day, overtime, shift timings, and other policies right within Truein and keep a close watch with real-time attendance analytics and reports. Get overtime and other calculations done automatically. Export detailed spreadsheets for compensation and other calculations. That's not all! Truein offers much more! Real-Time Notifications Automatic Updates Clock In reminders Time off (Leave) Management Overtime Calculation Policies Web dashboard Shift scheduling Geofencing​ Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Flexible Employee/Staff Shift Scheduling Software Plan Shifts in advance, schedule them faster, and save time. Caters to your Contract and Distributed workforce working in regular or rotating shifts Try it for Free! Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Schedule Shifts Easily and Effectively Truein's shift scheduling software simplifies shift rostering, allowing you to create effective schedules within minutes.The staff can view any changes or updates in the shift schedule through the app. Allocate Shifts in Bulk or Individually Staff scheduling software can allocate shifts bulk-wise or individually. Efficiently manage weekly varying shift schedules and changing number of staff in each shift. Auto Allotment of Shift Truein’s staff scheduling software enables shifts to get automatically allocated based on the In and Out time of the staff. No more manual staff scheduling. Manage Multiple Shift Patterns With Truein, you can manage both rotating shifts and fixed shift patterns. Truein shift management software manages round-the-clock shifts. You can continue with a particular schedule for a week or month or choose a time frame as per your need. Planned vs Actual Shift View Web dashboards for admins to access and manage all shift-related information, check which staff is working on which shift, compare Planned vs Actual Shift, and optimize workforce utilization. Multiple Customizable Shift-Related Policies Truein offers multiple customizable policies when it comes to shifts. Set custom polices for early out, Late Entry, or Grace periodbased on in/out time. Admin approval required if staff clocks In after the grace period. That's not all! Truein offers much more! Multiple Custom Reports Overtime Calculation Real-Time Notifications Clock In reminders Time off (Leave) Management Created by ProSymbols from the Noun Project Integration with Payroll HRMS Web dashboard Offline Attendance Do you want to know more? Get in Touch Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Truein for companies with Contract and Distributed workforce Construction Manufacturing Supply Chain, Logistics Facility Management Restaurant Manpower Staffing Agencies Other Contract Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Face recognition Time & Attendance . Get in touch Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Flex Schedules: A Complete Business Guide to Flexible Work Schedules Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Employee Time and Attendance Tracking Software With Face Recognition For Contract and Distributed Staff Streamline your employee time tracking and plug leakages. Use Truein, a centralised and accurate attendance and timesheet solution. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Truein Employee Time & Attendance System Features Accurate Face Recognition Automatically recognizes face even with mask on. AI-powered time and attendance software Custom Reports with OT calculations 70+ policies to automate OT, Shifts and Payroll-ready reports. GPS geofencing Attendance Attendance at pre-approved geofenced locations using any mobile/tablet. Centralized controls of multiple Sites Real-time view of all sites. Separate view for admin and supervisor 500+ Customers across the Globe trust Truein Time & Attendance Software Features of Truein Time and Attendance Management Software Automated Timesheet 100% accurate time tracking with face clock in. Automated and error free reports makes payroll calculation a breeze. Multiple In/Out Tracking Easily Track multiple Punch-in and Punch-out at one or multiple sites. Get consolidated reports without any manual reconciliation. Break Time Calculator Auto calculate worked hour of staff by separating break hours from total hours to streamline payroll calculations. Shift Scheduling Plan in advance or automatically allocate shifts like general, day or night in bulk for the entire organization or individually for each staff. More Practical Features Admin or Supervisor view Offline mode Time off (Leave) Management Job mapping Integration with HRMS/Payroll Govt ID capture Blacklist or Auto-deactivate Reports and Analytics Do you want to know more about our Time and Attendance Software ? Talk to us Clock In Options in Our Time Tracking Software Kiosk Mode Mobile/Tablet based Clock In with a common device at work sites Mobile based Selfie Mode GPS Location based Clock In from Staff own mobile Supervisors' Mobile Clock In through the site supervisor’s mobile. Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Companies with contract staff have saved 37% of revenue leakages simply by switching to new age Time and Attendance Software . Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs Employee Termination Policy – How To Prepare One 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees Unlocking HR’s Full Potential: Navigating the Top 5 Limitations of Human Resource Management New Year Resolution For HRs in 2023 8-Hour Shift Schedule For 7 Days A Week Top 3 Face Recognition Attendance Machines in India With Prices (2023) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Aman Rustagi Sr. Admin Manager Moving from a thumb-based attendance system to a Face recognition based time and attendance solution was made easy by the Truein team. We have about 2000 staff at 10 different sites and the user experience has been great. Thanks for contacting us! We have received your message. We will be in touch with you soon! Streamline your attendance process Advanced Employee Leave Management System to Improve Transparency and Staff satisfaction Foolproof from implementing leave policies to month-end calculations Use Truein’s Employee Leave and Attendance Management System to Automate and Simplify the complete leave management process. Get in Touch Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice. Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Custom Policies and Workflows Custom leave policies to fulfil various organizational needs Multiple ways to Access Available anywhere with a Mobile app & web dashboard Reports and Dashboard Track detailed records of leave transactions and balance Seamless Integration Auto-sync leaves with Payroll and HRMS software. No manual process Daily/Hourly leave Need to leave a few hours early? No need to apply for Half-day,Apply for hourly leave and leave will be deducted only for those hours. Carry Forward Leaves Got unutilized leaves at the end of the month? Carry forward it to the next month for future use. Sandwich Leave Policy Enable sandwich policy to auto club the usual week off days with the paid leaves to improve productivity at the workplace Multi-level Approvals Set up department-wise approval workflows to 3 hierarchy levels. Applied leave must be accepted by all the respective department heads to get approved. Customized Leave and Employee Holiday Management Set up customized leave policies andholiday calendar on different sites, regions and staff categories for an effective leave management process Mobile and Web Staff can easily apply and view their leaves online from their own devices or ask managers to apply on their behalf Bring Transparency and Control. Explore Truein for your organization. Get in Touch Not Your Every Day Attendance and Leave Management Software Truein is not just a leave management system but a complete attendance and timesheet solution. Designed for Contract and Distributed workforce, Truein automates the entire leave and attendance management process to Increase workforce productivity and Plug revenue leakages. Key Highlights:- Accurate Face Recognition Customized reports and policies Powerful yet simple to use solution Mobile/Tablet based Centralised Controls Online Leave Management Suited for Diverse Industry Verticals Construction Facility Management Retail Manufacturing 3-horizontal-dots And More Truein is robust, reliable, and works as promised. I have implemented Truein in my previous and current companies. It's the best and most cost-effective solution. Piyush Dutt CPO Compass Group Truein outshines all other time and attendance solution. Its rich features, payroll ready timesheets and centralized controls put it in a class above all. Carlos Woodson Technology Manager Phoenix Transload Services After a long search, we chose Truein for Time tracking of our temp workers. Excellent support and user-friendly system make it a perfect solution to track and document employee hours. Nicolous Noble Payroll Administrator Backerhaus Veit Read all Customer Stories Try Truein and Automate The Leave Management and Attendance Tracking In Your Organization. Get In Touch Enter First Name Enter Last Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office Email Address Enter Mobile Number Submit By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Policy. Blogs A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy How To Handle Employees That Leave Work Without Permission 13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form