Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Track Employee Time and Attendance? How To Track Employee Time and Attendance? May 31, 2024 For a successful business, workforce management is essential. Rising labor costs can be a trouble that can spiral out of control, fast eating up profits. How to track employee time and attendance to handle workforce expenses better? You need reliable attendance tracking that can provide data to get an overview of the expenses to stay within budget, maintain accurate records, and remain compliant with labor laws. Whether a small business or an enterprise, there is a need for taking time and attendance for smooth workplace functioning. We have put together this guide to give you an overview of available options to track employee time and attendance. Table of Contents Five ways to track employee time and attendance 1. Paper-based attendance registers or timesheets 2. Manually recording employee hours in a spreadsheet 3. Swiping an employee ID card, key card, or badge 4. Biometric time and attendance tracking systems 5. Software-based employee attendance systems Conclusion Five ways to track employee time and attendance 1. Paper-based attendance registers or timesheets Attendance registers or timesheets are the oldest ways to track employee time and attendance. Evidently, with modern tools available, paper-based attendance recording is an outdated way that’s counter-productive. HR managers have to spend tedious hours maintaining attendance registers which is not a productive utilization of their time that could be better invested in action-oriented work. With the changing work environment and various work modes, such as remote hybrid work culture becoming popular, paper-based timesheets are no longer relevant. Also, calculating employee working hours manually every day adds to the administrative burdens, which can be easily avoided with automated attendance systems. 2. Manually recording employee hours in a spreadsheet Most small businesses use spreadsheet programs like Excel to manage employee attendance. While in comparison to paper systems, it is an upgrade, in 2022, the technology has become outdated. Compared to modern software tools, spreadsheets are categorized as manual entry systems. The requirement is to manually enter employee time and attendance data, which is time-consuming and prone to errors. Manual attendance keeping is a repetitive task that can lead to employee burnout. Another issue with manually recording employee hours in the spreadsheet is no security is provided to keep the data safe. With the rise of cybersecurity concerns, any online attendance tracking system implemented in an organization must be fully secured. 3. Swiping an employee ID card, key card, or badge Another way to track employee time and attendance is with card swipe time clocks, key cards, and employee ID cards. Punch cards were popular to record employee time and attendance during the 80s. It is not difficult to imagine a line of workers queuing up at a manufacturing unit to start their workday. Some industry is still using punch cards, but their drawbacks, like buddy punching and other time theft fraudulent behavior , cost employers too much money. A modern equivalent of punching card machines is the card swipe time clock. Such a time and attendance system require employees to swipe a scanned badge or employee ID card to automatically upload data into the system. While these systems are not as secure as biometric time clocks, they still offer a level of automation and can be a feasible option for some companies. 4. Biometric time and attendance tracking systems The most widely implemented attendance tracking hardware is the biometric system that recognizes and records attendance based on the employees’ biometric data. It significantly improves physical ID cards that can be lost or forgotten. These systems use employee fingerprints, retinal scans, or facial recognition to offer security and accurate attendance. Biometric Time and attendance-keeping systems eliminate time fraud and human errors that can contribute to maintaining a safer work environment. 5. Software-based employee attendance systems The pandemic forced companies to adopt attendance systems that are easy to manage and offer touch-free operation. The software-based employee attendance systems are designed to offer cloud-based centralized control over employee data. This provides them with unmatched security and scalability. Today, software-based employee attendance systems are used in several industries for workforce management. Truein is one of the best software-based employee attendance systems. It is a hardware-less, cloud-based face recognition attendance system that offers exclusive features such as leave management , attendance policy implementation, geo-fencing and GPS tracking , and easy integration into most payroll systems. Truein is a cloud-based application that employees and managers can use directly through their phones as an app. It uses AI-based technology for facial recognition, which makes it highly accurate. Industries like construction, manufacturing, and mining require Truein to easily record the attendance of workers without relying on biometric features like fingerprints that can be covered in dirt or smudged with oil, making recording attendance challenging. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion For a profitable business, you need to manage your labor costs and other workforce expenses efficiently. A modern employee time and attendance tracking system like Truein can provide tools that help HR to make data-driven decisions. It is an essential step towards creating a workplace ecosystem where employees are satisfied and accurately paid while the company enjoys increased productivity and revenues. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 8 Best Ways To Track Employee Hours How to Track Employee Performance? (A Complete Guide) How to Track Employee Absences? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					7 Ways To Reduce Absenteeism In The Workplace 7 Ways To Reduce Absenteeism In The Workplace May 24, 2024 Absenteeism is an expensive and global issue costing organizations billions of dollars. When a company cannot keep a tab on the absenteeism rate in the workforce, it can severely affect the output and the bottom line. While HR has always struggled to decide how to reduce absenteeism in the workplace, some new solutions are coming up. In this article, we look at some ways how to reduce absenteeism. But first, let’s start with the definition. Table of Contents What is absenteeism? Seven ways to reduce absenteeism in the workplace 1. Creating an attendance policy 2. Reward employees with good attendance 3. Address unscheduled absences immediately 4. Find ways to reduce employee stress 5. Offer flexible working option 6. Communicate with employees and provide feedback 7. Keep track of employee absences Conclusion What is absenteeism? Absenteeism is when a worker willfully and regularly comes into work without providing an “acceptable reason.” The critical word here is ‘acceptable,’ which doesn’t include authorized absences such as holidays, health appointments, paid leaves, illness, childcare, etc. However, it is tricky to define absenteeism as the word, as there are instances when long-term health problems, burnout, or stress resulting from the workplace can cause absenteeism. All these are legitimate health issues that need to be addressed. As a manager or supervisor, you’ll have to accommodate seldom staff absences from time to time. However, if it becomes seemingly frequent, you must take the following measures. Seven ways to reduce absenteeism in the workplace 1. Creating an attendance policy Your workers must be able to aware of what are the company attendance policies. Therefore, the company attendance policy should be clear, and every employee should be mindful of the consequences they can face due to frequent absenteeism. All the points must be mentioned, including what counts as unaccepted absence, how the company follows up on unsanctioned leaves, and how employment can be affected due to excessive absenteeism. To ensure that workers are adhering to the policy seriously, managers must enforce it consistently. 2. Reward employees with good attendance Most of the resources on how to decrease absenteeism in the workplace talk about the steps you can take to mitigate the challenge but often miss out on rewards. It would help to reward the employees for good attendance records to encourage such behavior. Adding an incentive to attend work is one of the best ways to let employees voluntarily keep attendance high. The attendance system should not penalize the employees for legitimate reasons for being absent such as illness or childcare. 3. Address unscheduled absences immediately One of the reasons why absenteeism becomes such a significant problem for a company is when managers cannot immediately take action to address unscheduled absences. As mentioned, it is mandatory to implement the attendance policy consistently and hand out consequences. However, it must not be a knee-jerk reaction to every absentee; managers and supervisors should evaluate the reason for the absence and support the workers if needed. Remember that addressing unscheduled absenteeism is not only about dishing out sanctions but creating a clear divide between what is acceptable and what is not. A recommended way to reduce staff absenteeism is to introduce the return-to-work interview. There are many benefits – it shows companies care for the staff, helps workers ease into their roles, and reduces the rate of repeated absenteeism. 4. Find ways to reduce employee stress You must first check that the working environment is not stressful or unhealthy for the workers. The solution to reducing absenteeism in the workplace lies in understanding the root cause of the problem. It is not unusual for workplace stress to cause high employee absenteeism . Explore options like implementing a wellness program and making your workers’ health one of the top priorities. Employees who are physically and mentally healthy are more productive and engaged. 5. Offer flexible working option A proper work-life balance is essential for workers. Offering a flexible work schedule has proven to be one of the most efficient ways to increase the workforce’s well-being and attachment to the company. If possible, introduce flexible working hours or even remote work. For instance, Netflix offers unlimited vacation days for employees, contributing to its employee engagement plan. 6. Communicate with employees and provide feedback An easy way to reduce absenteeism in organizations is to improve employee engagement through proper communication. Set up an efficient internal communication system for workers to quickly follow up about the company’s workings, suggest improvements, report problems, and get feedback about their attendance. 7. Keep track of employee absences To implement these tips successfully, you need reliable attendance management software like Truein. Truein is a cloud-based, hardwareless employee time and attendance management software that can track daily attendance, absences, and holidays and keep track of sanctioned leaves. It also allows you to create and maintain an attendance policy that you can implement consistently. Workers can request leave through the app from their phones, and concerned managers are notified automatically to accept or reject the request. Truein easily integrates with most payroll software making it a competent workforce attendance management software. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope these tips will help you reduce absenteeism in your workforce. Try Truein to handle all employee attendance requirements and quickly implement your company’s attendance policy. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry What Is Employee Absenteeism? What Causes It and How To Deal With It? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? May 17, 2024 Meeting business goals can become complicated if you cannot manage employee attendance at the company. Poor attendance eats up revenue, reduces productivity, and drains employees’ morale, who have to pick up the slack. If absenteeism has started affecting the company’s bottom line, you need an employee attendance improvement plan. Every company needs an attendance improvement plan because, according to Reference.com , the average number of sick days per employee is 5.2. At the same time, it may not seem like a significant number, but when you multiply it by the number of employees, you will see the problem. This is why it is essential to implement an employee attendance improvement plan. This article will discuss how you can better track and manage employee attendance. Table of Contents Why do you need an employee attendance improvement plan? Six tips for creating an employee attendance improvement plan 1. Create a clear and easy-to-understand employee attendance policy 2. Track the attendance of employees 3. Identify the causes of absence 4. Explain what will happen if employees take unplanned leaves 5. Train managers on how to deal with absenteeism 6. Allow a flexible work schedule Conclusion Why do you need an employee attendance improvement plan? Before the why let’s understand an employee attendance improvement plan. An employee attendance improvement plan is the formal document that a supervisor or manager sends to an employee to address their excessive absenteeism. When an employee is regularly taking offs or is absent without notification, managers can first schedule a face-to-face meeting with them to discuss the underlying issue. Suppose the meeting doesn’t solve the issue. In that case, you can share the employee attendance improvement plan to help workers understand the problem and the consequences of their continued absence. Good employee attendance is essential to ensure productivity is maintained in the company. Also, for customer-facing jobs, proper employee attendance means consistent service with minimal waiting time. It improves the customer experience and boosts brand loyalty. Your organization needs a comprehensive employee attendance improvement plan to prevent distracting other employees, burdening the management with overtime costs, and diminishing team morale. If your company struggles with employee absenteeism , here are some tips for creating an employee attendance improvement plan. Six tips for creating an employee attendance improvement plan 1. Create a clear and easy-to-understand employee attendance policy An attendance policy is a must for every organization. Even it is a legal requirement to inform the workers about their attendance rights so they can feel more in control of how they manage their work and personal lives. Before creating an employee attendance improvement plan, you have to provide them with an attendance policy so they can be held responsible if they are not following the instructions. Managers should take the time to create an attendance policy that’s transparent and employee-friendly. We assume you already have an attendance policy in place; all it might need are a few amendments to include the following. From the beginning, ensure that company’s expectations about employee attendance are mentioned. Encourage feedback from workers about the policy, and if there are some suggestions, be open to incorporating them into the policy for the betterment of the workers. Be transparent about the consequences workers might face if they don’t meet the expectations. It is also necessary to be precise with the language. The attendance policy must be easy to understand, and there should not be any ambiguity that might confuse the workers. Try to be specific and detailed about the policy guidelines. The employee attendance improvement plan template will help to reach out to employees. 2. Track the attendance of employees Suppose an employee is sick; how easy is it for them to request a leave? Or, how easily can you track the no-shows if there are absences? To ensure that employees can stick with the attendance policy guidelines, facilitate the easy request, approval, and tracking of employee absences. For this purpose, invest in quality employee time and attendance management software like Truein. It is a cloud-based, AI-powered face recognition attendance system that offers total employee time and attendance tracking features a company requires. Employees can quickly request information about absences through the Truein app on their smartphones. Managers and supervisors are instantly notified about the request. Not every time do you need to give a worker the employee attendance improvement plan if they do not show up for work. Tracking their absences keeps you in the loop and informed about their leave. You have the opportunity to arrange for a replacement. Truein tracks the attendance of employees in real time and can produce insights that can help you decide on whether a worker should be given the employee attendance improvement plan or not. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 3. Identify the causes of absence Poor attendance is not always due to unfriendly work culture or lack of worker discipline but can be an indicator or a more significant problem. You must identify the cause of absence. Usually, it’s an injury or illness which cannot be controlled, but if the reasons are one of the following, you need to provide a solution: A conflict between workers and supervisors can result in absenteeism. If it happens frequently, the company’s bottom line is badly impacted. Managers need to take action to identify and resolve conflicts proactively. Issues with work itself at times can result in employee absences. For instance, an unbalanced workload or unrealistic deadlines can push workers into a corner. It affects their mental well-being. Lack of training can also be a reason for poor productivity at work. Personal issues and family commitments can also result in absences. All these issues must be resolved at a personal level. Ensure you do not initiate disciplinary action against employees before understanding why for attendance issues. It might be the worker is protected under the FMLA or ADA law. It is your responsibility to understand the problems and help workers get back on track. 4. Explain what will happen if employees take unplanned leaves Workers are less likely to take unplanned leaves if they know the company’s stance on such absences. It would help if you elaborated on the consequences and the actions that can be taken against employees who frequently take unplanned leaves. There should be complete transparency on how and what disciplinary measures will be taken. This will ensure that employees are aware of the actions that can be taken against their behavior of frequent absences. 5. Train managers on how to deal with absenteeism Managers and supervisors must be trained on how to deal with absenteeism properly. There is nothing wrong with enforcing the employee attendance improvement plan, but they must show compassion and empathy. Clear communication with absent employees, asking for their well-being and informing them about the impact of their absence on other coworkers and the overall work is a better way to take the initiative. Train managers how to personally reach out to unscheduled absentees to enquire about the circumstances. This shows workers that the supervisors and managers care about their well-being and allows them to discuss the effect of their unscheduled absence. Such an approach will encourage employees to take responsibility for their work presence. Supervisors are the first point of contact and workers reach out to them when they need to leave. Initially, supervisors should accept their requests without asking too many questions if the reasons for the absence are understood. However, they should feel free to initiate employee attendance improvement plan sharing if they see a pattern developing and employees start abusing the policy. 6. Allow a flexible work schedule The work schedule must not result in a compromise between work and life balance. Your employees will appreciate a flexible work schedule that can accommodate their requirements, such as doctor appointments, attending sick children, or jury duty. A flexible work schedule includes the option to work from home, telecommute, share jobs, or ability to swap shifts with a coworker. While a flexible work schedule may not be feasible for all companies, if it is an option for your organization, you should implement flexibility as it can improve attendance and engagement of employees. When you give freedom to employees about when and where they are from, you can eliminate call-offs due to unexpected personal issues. Like standard work schedules, all the policies regarding flexible schedules should be appropriately documented and mentioned in the attendance policy so that management can track and monitor such programs. Conclusion An employment attendance improvement plan is a powerful tool, but it should be implemented only when required. If you can implement the tips we have shared in this guide, you will be able to better communicate with your workers and understand the reason behind their absence. This will provide an opportunity to improve attendance proactively, and you are less likely to have to give workers the employee attendance improvement plan to follow. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 17, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 17, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 17, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 17, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 17, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Facilities Management Improvement Strategies and Best Practices How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? Effective Onboarding: 10 Tips for Effective Onboarding Process Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form