Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					How To Manage Overtime In The Construction Industry? How To Manage Overtime In The Construction Industry? July 23, 2024 The Indian construction industry is a major player contributing to the economy’s growth. At the center of the focus of the government’s initiatives to create world-class infrastructure in a time-bound manner, the construction industry is poised to receive investments of up to $1.4 trillion by 2025 . Without a doubt, the construction industry is crucial to driving the country’s growth, but it needs some reforms too. The industry is the second-largest employer, with over 51 million workers. Furthermore, the construction industry created 45 million additional jobs directly or indirectly. It is easy to anticipate that there certainly will be management challenges with such a large workforce. In this article, we will focus on overtime in the construction industry. We will take a look at the challenges and available solutions. Table of Contents What are the construction industry overtime rules? 6 Tips to manage overtime in the construction industry? 1. Identify the issue 2. Be aware of local overtime laws 3. Track work hours with GPS construction time tracking software 4. Cross-train employees 5. Hire contractors 6. Improve work allocation and management Conclusion What are the construction industry overtime rules? As the construction industry primarily has a workforce working at sites, time management is a complicated task to achieve. Keeping track of workers is a gigantic task. It is important to understand what laws govern and protect workers’ rights in the context of overtime. Here are the essential labor laws an employer must be aware of. Act Provisions under the Act Factories Act, 1948 Sec. 51, 54 to 56 & 59 of the Act include overtime wages. Under section 59 of the Factories Act, it is clearly instructed that a worker who works for more than 9 hours any day or for more than 48 hours in a week will be entitled to receive wages in respect to overtime work at the rate of twice his/her ordinary rate of wages. Minimum Wages Act, 1948 It also applied to construction workers. According to section 33 of the Minimum Wages Act, overtime wages must be twice the rate of the ordinary wages of the worker.Sec. 14 of the Act states that for workers, if the minimum rate of wages is fixed by the time period, such as by the hour, by the day, or by any such period, and if any worker works more than that number of hours, it will be considered overtime. Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970 As per Rule 79 of the Act pertains to the law regarding overtime calculation for contract workers. According to the act, every contractor must maintain a Register of Overtime in Form XXIII. All important details like the employee's name, overtime calculation, hours of extra work, etc., must be recorded in the register. Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment Service) Act, 1996 Under Section 28 & 29 of the Act, it is mentioned that construction workers who work overtime as per the regulations mentioned above must be remunerated at the rate of twice the ordinary rate of wages. Companies struggling with managing overtime for construction workers can end up with losses. As the law requires to pay twice the ordinary wage rate, overtime can have substantial financial liabilities. Let’s explore some measures to control overtime in the construction industry. 6 Tips to manage overtime in the construction industry? 1. Identify the issue If unexplained overtime is reported in the company, it is essential to know why it is happening before resolving the issue. Overtime construction can result from several problems such as heavy project loads, poor time management, and staffing shortage . These are some of the issues on the management site. Audit the HR and managers’ logs to understand the staffing and work distribution. It is also not uncommon in the construction industry to find employees working overtime for the extra pay. You have to get a clear idea of the issues to decide how to manage overtime for construction workers. 2. Be aware of local overtime laws The central government of India implements the labor laws we have listed above, but there are specific local labor laws that a company must be aware of. For example, Maharashtra has tweaked the local labor law to allow longer working hours and overtime periods for workers. As per the rule, “ With the exemption from Sections 51,52, 54, and 56, employers can allow labourers to work in two shifts of 12 hours each.” 3. Track work hours with GPS construction time tracking software As mentioned above, tracking employees’ working hours is a significant challenge in the construction industry. Field workers are away from CCTVs, so there is no sure way to know if they are working or not. Using a GPS-based attendance system , you can overcome this challenge. Truein is a face recognition attendance system with geofencing and GPS tracking features. It can be used to record overtime for construction workers through the app on their smartphones. 4. Cross-train employees The skill gap is a problem that increases over time in the construction industry. If you do not have the workers with the required skills, it can slow down productivity. Also, if the company is understaffed, project tasks can take longer to complete. The solution lies in cross-training employees to take up multiple roles if there is demand. 5. Hire contractors Building on the above issue, if the overtime construction does not seem to stop even after cross-training workers because of staff shortage, you need to hire contractors. Hiring an independent contractor workforce can compensate for the deficit, and overtime can be eliminated. If the contractor uses an independent contractor time tracking app , it can help to manage and reduce overtime effectively. 6. Improve work allocation and management If the HR managers regularly cram overtime at the end of projects, it indicates poor time management. When you fail to anticipate the project’s timeline or resources, which will be required at the initial stages, the task becomes hard to manage as the deadline arrives. The managers must spread out hours from the beginning of the project so that no overtime occurs later. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Unmanaged overtime in the construction industry can be a real nuisance. It can create revenue overheads that reduce the profits, but more importantly, it can take a toll on employee productivity and health. With efficient construction time and attendance software like Truein, unnecessary overtime can be eliminated and boost the company’s efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Labor Shortage: What It Is, Why There Is A Shortage & How To Overcome It? Labor Shortage: What It Is, Why There Is A Shortage & How To Overcome It? June 25, 2024 The COVID-19 pandemic affected businesses in the worst ways possible. Revenues stopped, inventory was lying unused, debts increased exponentially, and many companies had to lay off employees to stay afloat. Interestingly, as the lockdown subsided and business operations returned to normal, companies experienced an unexpected labor shortage. Hiring workers has become increasingly difficult because of ongoing mass resignations and employees seeking more flexibility. This article will be a helpful resource if you are looking for strategies to overcome labor shortage issues. But, before we get started with the strategies to overcome labor shortages and retain employees, let’s first understand what a labor shortage is. Table of Contents What is a labor shortage? Why is there a labor shortage? 1. Poor compensation 2. Lack of flexibility 3. A question of purpose 8 Ways to deal with the labor shortage 1. Train and cross-train existing employees 2. Improve the work environment to reduce employees leaving the organization 3. Recognize and reward employees 4. Make opportunities for them to develop and grow 5. Automate tasks 6. Pay bounties to employees who bring new employees 7. Be flexible with schedules 8. Use time tracking tools Conclusion What is a labor shortage? The labor shortage is a term that indicates a gap between the labor needed in industry and the number of workers available to fill in the requirement. Simply put, there are more jobs available than the workers. It can be because workers are less willing to work in a position or a scarcity of skilled labor. The pandemic accelerated the labor shortage issue as, during the last two years, 1 in 4 workers quit their jobs since the pandemic and have not returned to work. It is becoming a struggle to find workers to fill open positions. Manufacturing, construction, hospitality, transportation, and healthcare are the most affected industries. If you pay attention, there is a common factor in all these industries-they require the workforce to be available in person during work hours. Also, most of these industries employ blue-collar workers and heavily rely on laborers to operate. Why is there a labor shortage? The labor shortage is not only because of fewer people willing to work; there can be several other factors contributing to your business’ struggle with finding or retaining the right talent. Be mindful that none of these reasons prevents you from retaining the workers. 1. Poor compensation This reason is easiest to anticipate. Workers want to be paid more, at least what they are worth. Industries like construction, mining, healthcare, and manufacturing especially face labor shortages as the pay is less than in other sectors. The limited wage is not enough to meet the increased cost of living and healthcare, pushing workers to look for positions that pay them better. 2. Lack of flexibility Since the pandemic, employees have been more discerning of opportunities that allow them to have a better work-life balance. Workers now seek increased flexibility, but employers remain reluctant to offer the same. According to a survey by Future Forums of 10,000 knowledge workers , employees want more flexibility in jobs and, if possible, location. As remote working is not an option for most of the mentioned industries, an evident lack of flexibility causes workers to look for work in other segments. 3. A question of purpose For many employers, it may seem inconsequential, but workers are increasingly losing their sense of purpose at work. Employees who are not connected to their workplace cannot be passionate about their jobs. It eventually forces them to leave work. If your company is facing a labor shortage, reevaluate the work environment, and if missing, try to create opportunities that will make employees feel more excited about their roles. Indeed surveyed workers who voluntarily left their jobs in 2020 and found that 92% of the respondents felt “life is too short to stay in a job they weren’t passionate about.” If workers do not feel connected with the company’s goal and vision, they may not be inspired to stay at the job. 8 Ways to deal with the labor shortage 1. Train and cross-train existing employees The mass exodus of the workers can leave companies in limbo if those leaving are skilled workers. You must implement training programs to help workers across domains acquire common skills to keep business operations up if there is a labor shortage. Cross-training employees can help. For instance, production staff can be trained to handle maintenance responsibilities if the situation arises. Cross-training does more than retain employees; it creates a sense of value and community. 2. Improve the work environment to reduce employees leaving the organization As we mentioned above, the work environment is one of the main reasons why employees work or leave a job. You are walking in circles if you are wondering how to solve workforce shortage without addressing the issues causing employees to leave. Ensure that the work environment is positively inductive for employees. For example, if you are in the manufacturing industry, your employees must feel safe at work with all safety measures. 3. Recognize and reward employees Acknowledging workers’ hard work and sincerity and rewarding them appropriately will boost their morale and keep them engaged. Make sure your employees are not feeling neglected, and their efforts are recognized and rewarded. Just offering perks alone is no more an incentive good enough to keep workers; you have to make them feel appreciated and valued as part of the team. 4. Make opportunities for them to develop and grow Pandemic has changed the workforce a lot. Everything needs improvement – skills required for the job, where and how work is performed, and what motivates the workforce. To overcome labor shortages and retain employees, you must create opportunities for them to learn and grow. Take a fresh look at the workforce and try to identify opportunities where you can introduce improvements. For instance, if your manufacturing unit relies on manual labor for production, you can introduce CNC machines for repetitive tasks and train the workers. This will present them with an opportunity to develop and grow. 5. Automate tasks If your company has scope for automation, explore solutions for the same. The more automated tasks are, the lesser workforce will be required. In the wake of the rising cost of labor and the shortage of workers, several companies have considered automation to reduce the up-front cost of hiring or maintaining a large workforce. Partnering with consulting firms to explore automation integration in the business processes will provide an answer to how to solve the workforce shortage. For example, you can use automation to help remove infrastructure bottlenecks and free up human resources to work on operations that contribute to the revenue directly. Learn more about HR automation here . 6. Pay bounties to employees who bring new employees Why not turn your workers into headhunters by offering them incentives for referring talent to the company? Instead of outsourcing the hiring process or relying on the HR team to solve workforce shortages, you can introduce a referral bonus for employees to bring in new talent. At some of the most successful companies, 28 to 30 percent of the new hires come from employee referrals . If they can do it, so can you. 7. Be flexible with schedules Flexibility is a requirement, not an option, to retain workers. Now employees seek a more positive work-life balance and opportunities that offer the flexibility to work. By creating flexible work schedules, you can let workers feel relaxed about their routine and not stressed. You can use employee shift scheduling software for that. It will help prevent employees from leaving. 8. Use time tracking tools Employees adequately compensated for their work time build trust in the managers and the company. Using time and attendance management tools to record attendance would be best. Such tools also free HR managers from manually managing attendance and shifts, a process often susceptible to human errors. Truein is a face recognition attendance system that can help companies schedule shifts , track timing, and efficiently distribute workloads among employees. It can automate report generation, directly integrate attendance records with payroll software, and for remote sites and field workers. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion There is no telling when markets will emerge victorious from the acute labor shortage facing businesses today. While the HR gurus can only make predictions based on surveys and studies, business owners need to make tough decisions. The strategies we have listed here are helping companies across the globe overcome the labor shortage. We hope you, too, can recognize what’s causing the labor shortage at your company and implement the appropriate measures to fill in the gaps. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? Top 10 Challenges Faced By HRs In 2023 and How To Overcome Them 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Leave and Attendance Management »  					What Is Employee Absenteeism? What Causes It and How To Deal With It? What Is Employee Absenteeism? What Causes It and How To Deal With It? June 25, 2024 Workers are humans, and as HR managers, it is crucial to understand that some level of absenteeism in the workforce is inevitable. Falling ill, injuries, personal business, or occasional requirement to look after a family member, there can be several instances when an employee has to take off. Table of Contents But when do you know that employee absenteeism is too much? What is employee absenteeism? Who is affected by employee absenteeism? 5 Reasons for employee absenteeism 1. Low employee engagement 2. Time theft can also be considered absenteeism 3. Lack of a flexible working 4. Workplace burnout 5. Substance abuse and stress 8 Ways to deal with employee absenteeism 1. Create an employee attendance policy 2. Take employee opinions 3. Adopt a flexible work schedule 4. Do employee engagement programs 5. Start employee wellness programs 6. Give rewards or incentives to employees 7. Provide one to two weeks of paid time off 8. Keep track of employee absences How To Discuss Absenteeism With Your Employee Conclusion But when do you know that employee absenteeism is too much? When unscheduled absences become a norm and impact the company’s productivity, HR managers must take action. While a flexible schedule is a great way to retain employees and attract talent, rampant absenteeism can negatively impact workforce morale and create a bottleneck for the bottom line. This is why leading organizations proactively discuss strategies to deal with employee absenteeism. This article will discuss everything related to employee absenteeism and how to manage absenteeism effectively. What is employee absenteeism? In simple terms, employee absenteeism is the frequent lack of attendance without reasonable cause or proper notification. Absenteeism is a repeated behavior and doesn’t include occasional no-call, no-show, or absences in instances that cannot be controlled like illness, sudden climate change, broken car, etc. For an organization, it is essential to have measures in place to guide HR managers in dealing with absenteeism at work. Employee absenteeism is on the rise , and ever since the pandemic, it is becoming even more challenging for companies to take control of the situation when more people are calling in sick when they aren’t. In the long term, employee absenteeism can affect a company’s productivity. There are associated financial risks, too, as absenteeism-linked productivity losses cost U.S. companies $225.8 billion annually . HR professionals must be capable of making decisions on how to deal with excessive absenteeism in the workplace to avoid such losses. Who is affected by employee absenteeism? The answer might seem straightforward. Companies are at the most loss if they cannot control absenteeism, but they are not the only ones at a loss. While the costs to the company are pretty high, absenteeism affects employees too. It paves the way for poor work ethics that sets a dangerous precedent for new employees to follow. Employees who are regular with their attendance feel discouraged to continue to be so as they witness absenteeism. Speaking of monetary losses, according to the publication titled Absenteeism: The Bottom-Line Killer , Unscheduled absenteeism is a chronic problem for U.S. employers, conservatively costing $3,600 per hourly employee per year, and $2,650 per salaried employee per year. Apart from these direct losses, there are indirect costs such as wages paid to absent employees, poor quality of goods/services resulting from understaffing, and administrative expenses of managing absenteeism. 5 Reasons for employee absenteeism We understand that employee absenteeism is too high of a risk of being left unattended. Still, HR professionals must know what factors result in absenteeism to nip the evil in the bud. 1. Low employee engagement No company can have a dedicated workforce without ensuring employee engagement in the work culture. If there is a lack of activities to bring employees closer to their workplace, they will feel disengaged at work. It is essential for employee engagement and productivity that they feel connected to the workplace. When your workplace lacks employee engagement, the chances of absenteeism are high. 2. Time theft can also be considered absenteeism Company productivity is affected when employees are absent without informing, but time theft also results in the same losses for the company. When employees take unnecessarily long breaks, are frequently late to work, or leave early, they are essentially committing absenteeism. It is a practice that raises a question for the HR manager about the dedication and commitment of the employees. If unchecked, time theft can hurt the sentiments and morale of honest employees, further worsening the situation. 3. Lack of a flexible working Since the pandemic, employees are more discerning of the work-life balance and seek opportunities that allow them to focus on both. If a company has too rigid shifts leaving little scope for flexibility, it can be a significant reason for employee absenteeism. Lack of flexibility can be one of the biggest reasons employees miss work without prior notice. 4. Workplace burnout Burnout leads to ill-performance among employees. When there are no measures to avoid rigorous and unscheduled working conditions, employees face burnout that results in unscheduled absences. Employees must get breaks to rejuvenate. If a company overexposes its workforce to work, it can lead to the degradation of their interest in work. 5. Substance abuse and stress An issue that is widely known but less discussed, substance abuse among employees, can be a real problem. Employees succumb to substance abuse in some industries to relieve work stress and rejuvenate. Alcoholism is one typical example of substance abuse among employees. However, such abuse is detrimental to the employees’ physical and mental health. It degrades their motor functions and thinking ability, leaving them unfit for performing their duties. 8 Ways to deal with employee absenteeism Now that we know the main reasons let’s discuss how to deal with staff absenteeism. 1. Create an employee attendance policy Employee attendance policy helps the company communicate what is expected of the employees for attendance. This policy is a document that clearly states what is considered absenteeism and how will be the consequences of unauthorised absence . Employees must be aware of what the company expects from them to stick with the rules. 2. Take employee opinions Companies can understand how the workforce thinks and feels through employee opinions and surveys. The insights gained through surveys can help tackle the question- of how to deal with absenteeism in the workplace. Ask employees about commuting to work, schedule, personal issues, job satisfaction, etc. 3. Adopt a flexible work schedule As we mentioned above, that lack of flexibility can disengage workers. Adopt a flexible work schedule to allow workers to find a work-life balance and have more time for themselves and their loved ones. 4. Do employee engagement programs Ideally, the workplace should not only be about work but should provide opportunities for employees to bond and engage on a personal level. Employee engagement programs are excellent at bridging the gap between employees and their employers. Such programs make employees feel acknowledged and appreciated for their work. 5. Start employee wellness programs Wellness programs can help address health issues that employees face due to work. Such wellness programs fit within an employee’s regular work schedule. When you start a wellness program in the workplace, workers are encouraged to stay fit and healthy, ultimately providing you with a solution to how to deal with employee absenteeism. 6. Give rewards or incentives to employees If unscheduled absences must be punished, then you must incentivize an excellent attendance record, and punctual employees must be rewarded. It will keep their morale high and let others know that their presence in the workplace will be highly appreciated. 7. Provide one to two weeks of paid time off The work schedule must not bound employees; that’s why flexibility is a must. However, it is vital to provide paid time off to employees to let them have time for themselves and family. Paid time off is an excellent way to reduce employee absenteeism. 8. Keep track of employee absences HR managers can take steps and decide how to handle employee absenteeism only when they know the severity of the situation. It is essential to track employee absences properly to make the right decisions. For this, the Truein face recognition system can be highly effective. An AI-based cloud attendance and leave management system , Truein comes with in-built features to help managers and supervisors keep track of employees. As it is a GPS-based attendance system and can be deployed with an app on a worker’s phone, it is much easier to keep track of employee attendance. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How To Discuss Absenteeism With Your Employee Unplanned Absenteeism can frustrate you as an employer but do not jump the gun and right away question your employee’s professionalism and integrity. Discuss with your employee in a 1 to 1 meeting and get a reasoning from them on the reason behind their unplanned leaves. Absenteeism can also stem from non work related issues. It is therefore important that you show your employees you care and try finding solutions if it is a genuine non work related issue that may be impacting them personally. In other scenarios, clearly communicate to employees the company policies and procedures and the importance of adhering to them. Address the issue as soon as you see it. Create a plan with them and discuss the next steps that would occur if their absenteeism continues. Also praise and reward them when you see improvement in your employee attendance. Conclusion Employee absenteeism is a real nuisance that requires well-thought strategies to tackle challenges before they consume revenues and nose-dive productivity. We hope this guide will provide you an insight into what is causing unscheduled absences at your workplace and the strategies to deal with employee absenteeism. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Overstaffing: Causes, Consequences and 8 Ways To Deal With Over Staffing Problems Employee Abscond: How to Deal with Employee Absconding Cases? Impact of Employee Burnout on Your Workforce: Warning Signs, Causes and Best Preventive Measures Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form