Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees 8 Best Attendance Apps for Employees May 20, 2024 Trust in your employees is essential, even necessary, to ensure smooth operations. But if your workers start taking advantage of your trust, or they routinely defy the company attendance and work policies, you need to take stringent action. However, you need evidence to confront your employees for time theft or playing fast and loose with the company policies. Fortunately, attendance apps can easily help you track your workers’ time and attendance. Time theft causes US employers a staggering $373 million per year , which is why it is required to nip the evil in the bud. An employee attendance app is a simple yet highly efficient solution to ensure that the workers work for the hours they are paid and are present exactly where they are supposed to be. These apps come with additional HR features for workforce management. In this article, we will share the best attendance app for employees, but before that, let’s look at what features you should focus on. Table of Contents What to look for in an employee attendance tracker? 1. Truein Key features: Pros: Cons: 2. Timely Features: Pros: Cons: 3. Connecteam Features: Pros: Cons: 4. Workstatus Key Features: Pros: Cons: 5. Harvest Features: Pros: Cons: 6. TSheets Features: Pros: Cons: 7. Hubstaff Features: Pros: Cons: 8. Bonsai Features: Pros: Cons: Conclusion What to look for in an employee attendance tracker? Some of the essential features to look for when choosing an attendance tracker app for employees are: Easy to deploy: An employee time and attendance app should be easy to deploy with negligible dependence on additional hardware. Ease of use: As the attendance app will be used by workers and management alike, it should be easy to use even for workers will lesser technical acumen. Features: Employees must easily clock in and out using the app. It should let employees log in quickly without struggle. Automated alerts and reminders: It should send workers, supervisors, and managers automated alerts for important updates such as leaves, absents, and shift changes. Management options: The best attendance app will have leave, absence, and overtime management options to easily track work hours. Payroll management: The app must be easy to integrate with existing payroll software at the company. Price: The app must be a cost-effect time and attendance management solution that suits your budget. Support: Finally, the team behind the app must be able to offer good customer support. Based on these factors, we picked the best employee attendance trackers on the market. Let’s take a look. 1. Truein Truein is the best attendance app that has over 300 customers from 25+ countries. Its customers include prominent brands such as Compass Group , Godrej , Tata Projects , Schindler, UniSpice, and Dominion Global. Companies use it for tracking attendance of regular, contractual, and distributed workforce. It is a hardware-less, cloud-based employee attendance tracker app with a mobile-first solution for companies across industries. It features several HR options to manage attendance, overtime, shift schedule, leaves, and alerts. Key features: Geofencing and GPS-tracking run on mobile/tablet devices. It can be deployed for multiple sites and gives centralized control to managers Automated notifications and alerts Auto attendance audit to ensure no time theft is committed 70+ customizable attendance policies to automate shifts, overtime, late marks and more Time off and holidays Contractual and distributed staff use case Insightful reports and analytics Integration with payroll/HRMS Pros: Hardware-less mode makes it more suitable for organizations with roaming staff and distributed store It can be deployed immediately on Android or iOS phones of employees with minimal setup Fast customer support Easy to integrate with any payroll software Highly affordable attendance app Cons: There is no free plan “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Timely Another competitive attendance app is Timely, which allows managers to track employee time and attendance in a single dashboard. It has a fundamental KPI tracking feature to monitor team performance in the context of key metrics like capacity, overtime, etc. Not as versatile as Truein, it features a customizable tagging system to know how workers spend their time. However, the limitations of this attendance tracker app for employees make it suitable for specific industries like salon and spa businesses. Another competitive attendance app is Timely, which allows managers to track employee time and attendance in a single dashboard. It has a fundamental KPI tracking feature to monitor team performance in the context of key metrics like capacity, overtime, etc. Not as versatile as Truein, it features a customizable tagging system to know how workers spend their time. However, the limitations of this attendance tracker app for employees make it suitable for specific industries like salon and spa businesses. Features: Overtime documentation for managers Timesheet sharing option Payroll system included in the app Option for performance reviews Invoicing feature Pros: Quite straightforward to use Mobile and desktop apps available Decent customer service Cons: The features are basic No advanced reporting to scheduling No option to include text or SMS alerts Only available in English 3. Connecteam Connecteam is an online time and attendance system that can be deployed on workers’ phones. It is also a complete attendance tracker app for employees like Truein but comparatively is very expensive and not suitable for smaller businesses that are looking for an attendance app for better tracking efficiency. It features the Breadcrumbs technology, similar to Truein’s geofencing capability, allowing managers to see employees’ locations to prevent potential time theft . To allow more coverage, the features such as GPS-empowered timestamp and map view make it suitable for frontline workers and remote employees. Features: Desktop and mobile access Geofencing, GPS tracking Timesheet and payroll management with Quickbooks In-app chat Pros: Efficiently manage time and attendance Responsive customer support Easy to implement Cons: Limited functionality given the high price Not suitable for smaller businesses Free plan only allows 30 users 4. Workstatus Workstatus is the leading time tracking and attendance management software used by numerous organizations globally. Companies use Workstatus to accurately record attendance and hours worked by regular, remote, and field employees. It is a user-friendly cloud-based solution for comprehensive workforce management across industries. Workstatus provides powerful features to track time, manage shifts, verify attendance, boost productivity, and streamline payroll. Key Features: Precise location tracking using geofencing and GPS running on mobile devices. Centralized dashboard for managers to oversee multiple team members and sites. Automated notifications on attendance, timesheets, and violations. Time audits and random screenshots prevent attendance abuse. Flexible shift scheduling with calendar sync. Detailed timesheets, reports, and analytics for insights. Direct integrations with payroll platforms. Pros: Improved payroll accuracy with automated time tracking. Oversight of remote and field employees through location tracking. Robust employee monitoring features. Easy to set up without extra hardware. Free plan available to try software. Cons: Can seem invasive with location tracking and monitoring. 5. Harvest Harvest is a simple time clock app that you can use to monitor the employees’ attendance, absences, and work hours. It is a lightweight app with limited features allowing managers to track employee time and attendance. It is suitable for retail and delivery businesses and focuses on the requirement of these domains. Its features include accessible expense records by snapping photos of the receipts. It helps you track the invoices and their status and can record payments directly from your phone. A delivery agent can use the app to track mileage for reimbursement later on. Harvest can record employees’ online and offline time as an employee attendance tracker app. It can set task timers and allows timely reminders to submit time (timesheet approval). You have to enter the attendance data into your Harvest account manually. Features: Track expenses and billable hours Timesheet approval Automatic reminders Pros: Suitable as an invoicing app Easy to use Cons: Not a fully capable employee attendance app Poor customer support Interface is not intuitive and looks outdated 6. TSheets TSheets is also popularly known as the solutionTSheets, now branded QuickBooks. It is a widely used tracking software at enterprises allowing companies to track work hours, projects, and labor estimates. Even after its mass adoption, it is not the best attendance app because it has limited features. While you can easily integrate QuickBooks with Xero, Square, Dropbox, and Salesforce, it is more like a project management app offering payroll reports, workforce visibility, and detailed timesheets. It is suitable for both smaller and larger businesses. Features: It can be used as a desktop or mobile app or as a kiosk GPS time stamps Real-time tracking and reports Alerts and approvals Easy team management Pros: Detailed reporting Easy to use Cons: Customer service is poor Advanced features are not simple to use No free plan; you have to pay $8/user per month 7. Hubstaff Another attendance app that features some advanced features is Hubstaff. The unique features included in this app are automated payments and time tracking with screenshots. It allows management to track work hours in real-time with GPS location. Among other features, it offers payroll, invoicing, and report generation. If a worker loses internet, this employee attendance tracker app tracks hours offline and syncs back up once the connection is restored. Features: Hubstaff is the best employee attendance tracker for field workers It offers detailed reports Online timesheets Expense tracking Works as a central Kiosk app if needed Pros: Easy productivity management Better user interface Advanced reporting features Cons: Inbuilt payroll options are minimal There are limited customization options Some users reported bugs in the productivity tracker 8. Bonsai Bonsai is marketed as a suite of tools for freelancers and can be used as a personal time tracker. But you can still use it as an employee attendance app. However, you will notice a significant difference in its features as it is not a comprehensive and dedicated time and attendance app like Truein. It is more suitable to automate and streamline business workflows to monitor project progress and employee productivity. While Bonsai offers features to keep track of work days, managers need a 360-degree view of employees’ time and attendance as with other apps. You can use it to track time on projects, include time in project timesheets, and invoice hours accordingly. Features: More suitable as a personal time tracker Includes templates for proposals, and contracts Can manage clients, projects, files, documents, and payments Customizable forms and questionnaires Allows easy collaboration with clients Pros: With some customizations can be used as an employee attendance tracker Auto invoice generation Time and attendance tracking capabilities Cons: Not a versatile employee attendance tracker No central dashboard for managers Limited options for workforce management No free plan is available Conclusion A time and attendance app is a requirement for businesses today. As we embrace digital transformation, you cannot rely on traditional paper timesheets or Excel to track employee attendance. It is essential to embrace software solutions to boost productivity and simplify workforce management. We hope the list of attendance apps we have shared above will help you choose the best solution. Ensure that you choose a product keeping your business requirements, features, and budget in mind. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Best Geofencing Apps for Employees in 2024 5 Best Time Tracking Apps for Contractors Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? Manpower Planning – Meaning, Types, Process, Need, and Factors That Affect It? June 19, 2024 Businesses rely on manpower irrespective of size and industry. Interestingly, even when the organization of workers and laborers has been around for centuries, these signs of manpower management are still new. If you are a manager, then you must understand the importance of manpower planning in HRM and how to maximize the utilization of the workforce for productivity and profits. It is essential to know how manpower can be planned and aligned with the company’s goals and visions. In this article, we will discuss manpower planning in detail. Table of Contents What is manpower planning in human resource management? Types of manpower planning 1. Manpower planning at an organizational level 2. Manpower planning at micro-level 3. Short-term manpower planning 4. Medium-term manpower planning 5. Long-term manpower planning How to do manpower planning? 1. Trend Analysis 2. Work Load Analysis 3. Developing employment programs 4. Design training programs Need for manpower planning Factors that affect manpower planning in HRM 1. Monitoring of current manpower 2. Participation of all stakeholders 3. Socio-economic work culture Conclusion What is manpower planning in human resource management? Manpower is the primary resource for any company. In its absence, other resources like raw materials, money, machinery, etc., cannot be used. Workers are needed for every unit, even those with a high degree of automation, such as pharmaceuticals. This is why manpower is an essential resource that needs planning more than any other aspect of running a company. To become a successful manager, you must learn the importance of manpower planning. Manpower planning is evaluating, strategizing, and assessing the workers’ skills to create manpower teams that work at optimum productivity within an organization. Improper planning of the workforce can lead to overstaffing or understaffing, resulting in productivity and revenue losses. Manpower planning, as part of human resource management, empowers managers to create schedules and manage workers while improving production, work culture, and industrial relations. Types of manpower planning Manpower planning is a complicated process that has several levels of management. For organizational human resource management, there are probably two types of manpower planning. First, based on the level at which manpower planning is done. Second, based on the period for which it is done. 1. Manpower planning at an organizational level For the overall development of an organization, manpower planning can be done at an organizational level to create more opportunities for employment while utilizing available human resources most efficiently. An ample example of manpower planning at the macro level is when a company goes through a dramatic transformation that requires large-scale training of workers. For instance, Corning grew from a glass manufacturer to the biggest supplier of Gorilla glass today . Its success is based on excellent manpower planning. 2. Manpower planning at micro-level A more practical approach to manpower planning is at the micro level. At this level, managers take various measures at the business unit’s recruitment, selection, promotion, and expansion stages to train, compensate, and plan workers. Next is the types of manpower planning based on the duration. 3. Short-term manpower planning When manpower planning is done for one year, it is called short-term manpower planning. Annual plans are beneficial at the company level because short-term gains can be integrated easily into the company’s positive medium-term or long-term growth. 4. Medium-term manpower planning Generally, manpower planning that is for a period of 2 to 5 years is considered medium-term. Training and development of employees is often part of medium-term Manpower planning as it focuses on imparting skills that will be useful for the company in the next five years. 5. Long-term manpower planning Any manpower planning scheme that is over ten years is long-term manpower planning. Most companies utilize long-term manpower planning to forecast the growth of the company and plan further expansions. As part of long-term manpower planning, essential decisions regarding investments, acquisitions, and mergers are taken. How to do manpower planning? Before managers can forecast future manpower planning, they must evaluate the current manpower inventory. The type of manpower planning in HRM that will be suitable for your company depends on the kind of organization, the number of departments, and the employees in each work unit. Manpower planning is multidisciplinary and utilizes several forecast models. It usually includes: 1. Trend Analysis Managers have to use extrapolation (projecting past trends), indexation (using the current year as the basis), and statistical analysis to anticipate any sudden demand or decline in the number of workers in the company. 2. Work Load Analysis It involves evaluating the nature of workload in a department, a branch, or the division to map it to the available manpower. 3. Developing employment programs Once you have accurately created future forecasts based on the current manpower inventory, you can create employment programs to hire or train more the number of workers as per the forecast. 4. Design training programs Also, during workload analysis, you may need diversification, training, and development programs to make workers more productive at their jobs. The training programs depend on the extent of improvement required in the workforce or the level of technological advancement to be implemented in the company “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Need for manpower planning Any company with future growth prospects requires manpower planning to support sustainable growth and expansion. Manpower planning is a two-phased process that analyses the current human resources and makes forecasts related to the manpower that initiates the creation of employment programs. The need for manpower planning arises from the following requirements of a company: To proactively identify any shortage of surplus in the workforce to take necessary steps before any serious damage to the company’s financial prospects. Ensure that all recruitment and selection programs are based on manpower planning for best results. To reduce labor costs from hiring excess staff or overstaffing shift schedules. Manpower planning can also help identify the available talent, such as skilled laborers within the workforce, to further chalk out a development plan for such workers. It also supports the growth and diversification of your business, as through manpower planning, you can best utilize available human resources. Factors that affect manpower planning in HRM Manpower planning requires coordinated efforts from managers, supervisors, and executives. The following factors must be considered for manpower planning in HRM: 1. Monitoring of current manpower Available manpower must be closely monitored to evaluate their productivity and efficiency. Automation software like Truein can significantly simplify the process of staff time and attendance management . It is an AI-based, hardwareless employee time and attendance tracking software that companies across industries-manufacturing, mining, construction, automobiles, pharmaceuticals, etc., can deploy in their facilities to track and monitor workers in real time. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the time and attendance tracking of your employees. 2. Participation of all stakeholders Management, top-level executives, and workers must be part of manpower planning. Low-level workers can provide important information regarding the work environment, resource utilization, and training requirements. 3. Socio-economic work culture Manpower planning in HRM is also affected by the work environment within an organization. If your workers are unsatisfied, continuously stressed due to work, or have an unhealthy work/life balance, it can adversely affect your manpower planning efforts. Conclusion Any business that anticipates future growth or sustainable expansion of its products and services must invest in manpower planning. When done correctly, it can be a powerful strategy to fuel your company’s growth and workforce development. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 19, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 19, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 19, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 19, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 19, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Forecasting - Meaning, Need, and Methods Of Manpower Forecasting Workforce Planning: 2 Types of Staff Planning & 6 Stages of Workforce Planning What is a Full-Time Exempt Employee and How Does it Affect Your Workforce? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Construction Cost Management – Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan Construction Cost Management – Definition, Budgeting, and Creating A Plan January 2, 2023 In the construction industry, one major challenge is tracking costs and monitoring risk while keeping a job on budget. Effectively implementing construction cost management is pivotal in delivering a project on time and within budget. In the construction industry, it is essential to fine-tune the cost management process to maintain the efficiency of your services and remain profitable. Now cost control in construction can be managed easily if you understand some essential concepts. This is what we are about to discuss in this article. We will explore how construction cost management relates to your workers’ efficiency and, ultimately, your bottom line. Table of Contents What is construction cost management? Mismanaged areas in construction cost management Planning a construction budget How to create a construction cost management plan? 1. Project research and analysis 2. Project development 3. Preconstruction and documentation Cost control in construction project 1. Keep labor costs in check 2. Monitor project status 3. Adjust key result areas Conclusion What is construction cost management? Construction cost management is primarily focused on keeping the project budget within the planned limits and avoiding any increase in the total cost of the budget that can eat up your profits. Simply put, with construction budget management, companies can set a standard for all project costs ensuring that spending at any point stays within the pre-determined cost limits. Cost control on construction impacts all phases of a project, including planning, designing, estimation, change orders, hiring of laborers, and the finished product. Maintaining a reputation as a proactive, efficient, and accurate service provider in estimating and executing a proposed project budget is also essential. Construction companies have a lot to take care of when they take on new projects and maintain many requirements. It is easy to mismanage the costs, which is why construction cost management is essential. At the core, the main requirement of cost control in the construction project is to implement systems to ensure that the project is delivered within scope and on budget. Mismanaged areas in construction cost management It is common for construction projects to get out of budget. According to the consulting giant KPMG , “ Just 25% of projects came within 10% of their original deadlines in the past 3 years.” It shows that without proper construction cost management, companies can lose profits and end up in debt. Why is it that even with careful cost control in construction, only 25% of the projects can maintain a positive cost budget? The answer lies in the external factors that affect the overall construction cost of a project. As such, a construction project requires raw materials procured from external sources. Compared to other industries, it is impossible to stock the building materials, as they are procured and delivered directly on-site. According to market reports , the cost of construction has risen 10%-12% in the last year, which has pushed the prices of real estate. This increase in the construction cost is due to higher input costs from the supply-side constraints. The rising price of crucial materials like cement and steel makes it tricky to estimate the construction cost accurately. In 2022, the price of essential construction materials has increased by 20%. According to the real estate consultancy firm Colliers, “With rising material cost, developers will be compelled to increase prices as construction materials account for about 2/3rd share in the total cost of construction. With wholesale price inflation (WPI) and material cost, both seeing a double-digit rise, the construction cost can rise by a further 8-9% by December 2022.” Planning a construction budget The best way to ensure that you are at the top of construction cost management is to plan it at the beginning of the project. Your construction budget is just like any other budget that anticipates and adds up all the costs so the project can be executed. Every construction project cost falls under one of these categories: Direct costs: Materials, labor, heavy machinery, and consultation fee falls under this category. General conditions: Also known as an indirect cost, it includes preconstruction costs, construction organization costs, and project operating costs. Overhead and profit: Overheads are the expenses associated with running your business, and profit is your earnings after all spending is deducted from project costs. How to create a construction cost management plan? An accurate construction budget requires that you include the following steps: 1. Project research and analysis Accurate forecasting is required for cost control in construction projects, so you must review the historical data of similar projects. Meet with suppliers to anticipate fluctuation in essential material costs. 2. Project development Research and project analysis help architects create the final design before it can be executed. A project manager uses this information to create a requirement list that includes materials and cost estimations. It is a crucial phase of cost control management because it guides your bidding. Depending on the cost estimations from the project managers, you can set the actual construction project budget to give to the clients by factoring in your profit margin. 3. Preconstruction and documentation This is where the project manager speaks to the stakeholders to highlight the issues the construction project will resolve. The preconstruction phase is necessary to make stakeholders aware of any unexpected costs that can come up. This is important to ensure that contractors don’t have to bear additional charges if they are already discussed with the stakeholders. Cost control in construction project As KPMG highlight that only one-fourth of the construction projects remain within the budget, it is safe to assume that a construction project has a high likelihood of getting out of budget. Here are the steps you can take for effective construction cost management: 1. Keep labor costs in check The construction industry is one of the largest employers of unskilled labor and contract workers. You must have adequate measures to monitor the productivity of such workers. Truein is a cloud-based, hardware-less time and attendance management solution that construction companies can deploy on-site. Workers can download the Truein app on their phones, and managers can set GPS-based geofencing attendance to ensure that workers are present on site. Truein provides segregated contractual workforce management to ensure project managers can easily manage full-time and contract workers. By tracking workers in real-time, you can ensure labor cost is justified. Schedule a free demo today and see Truein in action at your organization. 2. Monitor project status Things might go wrong during a construction project, and the role of project managers is to avoid the blame game and look into the factors that result in costs getting out of budget. You can utilize the Five Whys Technique to explore the underlying problems. 3. Adjust key result areas It is common for project managers in construction cost management to assume that cost correction will happen later. In construction projects, small mistakes here and there don’t wash up. Instead, they have a snowball effect on the overall budget. Project managers must adjust such minor discrepancies in project costs as they occur. Conclusion With construction cost management, every aspect of a construction project can achieve the best outcome. With successful cost control in construction, you set up your company for success time and again. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jan 02, 2023 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jan 02, 2023 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jan 02, 2023 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jan 02, 2023 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jan 02, 2023 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Manpower Budgeting - Definition, Explanation, and Example 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form