Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					What Is Shift Swap Policy and How To Create It For Your Organization? What Is Shift Swap Policy and How To Create It For Your Organization? July 24, 2024 In any business, your employees can ask for swap shifts and it is not an uncommon occurrence. Still, this seemingly routine procedure can become the bottleneck in workforce management without the right system. Suppose you expect employee A to show up on Monday for the morning shift, but he swaps shifts with employee B without your knowledge. While employee B shows up on Monday morning, he’s unfamiliar with the opening procedure and doesn’t bother to ask. This will cause a delay in business operation. This is one scenario, but there can be several such incidents where employees swapping shifts can result in management and productivity issues. It is why you must have a shift swap policy at work. Read on to find out how to establish effective shift swapping at work. Table of Contents What is a shift swapping policy? How does the shift swap policy work? Benefits of shift swapping policy 1. Employees get flexibility 2. Less no show at work 3. No extra work for managers What to include in a shift swapping policy 1. Define a clear process 2. When staff will receive the shifts 3. How much time will you give employees for upcoming schedules? 4. Shift swap approval process 5. Disciplinary procedures for failing to comply with the policy Conclusion What is a shift swapping policy? A shift swapping policy is a documented set of rules and procedures that a company uses to guide and manage the trade of employee shifts. A swapping shift at work policy aims to ensure that guidelines are followed per the strict set of protocols to avoid scheduling mistakes. You would want to have a shift swap policy at work for several reasons. Without proper procedures in place, employees are more likely to make decisions on their own, resulting in several drawbacks like – understaffing, additional labor costs, employee burnout, and conflict between employees. Your organization can benefit by removing any confusion from happening and keeping payroll and management duties streamlined. As an HR manager, you must outline a well-defined shift swap policy to ensure that there is not too much flexibility that could result in cutting corners. How does the shift swap policy work? In practice, an effective shift swap policy gives a structure for employees to follow when they want to swap shifts with a co-worker. Most organizations implement a digital system for workers to solicit and respond to shift swap requests. If the workforce size is significant, then the shift swap policy can have several limitations on who can swap with who. For example, employees can be restricted from swap shifts with someone outside their department or work area. Employees who want to change shifts will ‘advertise’ their intention for the same on the system so that other workers can see it. The workers can detail the shifts they want to work in return so other employees who are willing to swap can accept the request. Once there is an agreement between the workers, the request is forwarded to managers or supervisors for approval. Benefits of shift swapping policy 1. Employees get flexibility The unpredictability of life makes it impossible to be fully prepared. No matter how perfect your shift scheduling is, there’s always the possibility that unforeseen circumstances might affect the availability of workers. When you have a shift swap policy, employees can attend to unforeseen circumstances forcing them to leave early, take leave, work remotely, or arrange shift swaps. The ability to change work schedules provides much-required flexibility to employees to maintain a healthy work-life balance. It also encourages them to be loyal to the company as they have the option to handle important life events without losing their pay. You have a happy and engaged workforce when you give your employees the freedom to swap shifts and a flexible schedule. 2. Less no show at work Most employees cannot work unannounced because they get stuck with personal emergencies. When you give them the flexibility of swapping shifts and laid out policies, they know how to arrange for a substitute for the shifts they cannot attend. This significantly reduces the time employees are a ‘no show’ at work. It is a boost for productivity and contributes to the overall revenue growth of the company. 3. No extra work for managers As we explained how the shift swapping policy is implemented in practice, HR managers and supervisors have little involvement. Adopting an automated system to handle the changes in the shift roster only requires the manager to approve or reject the shift. Also, a shift swap policy ensures fewer shift changes with tighter coverage. With shift swapping tools, you can quickly identify suitable employees who are skilled, cost-efficient, and available so you can easily cover the shift requirements. Also, a clearly defined shift swap policy streamlines the process that reduces shift-swap frustration. It also minimizes miscommunication among the managers and staff. All this results in effective shift scheduling and can bring significant financial savings by lowering extra labor or overtime costs. What to include in a shift swapping policy In theory, shift swapping might seem simple, but it can turn into a nightmare quickly. When you work hard on creating an effective work schedule, impromptu tampering by workers, later on, can wreak havoc. With an effective shift swap policy, you are less frustrated and have more streamlined workers who are least likely to disturb the shift schedules unexpectedly. Here’s how you can create an effective swapping shift at work policy. 1. Define a clear process The correct procedure for swapping schedules must start at the managerial level. Managers must create transparent, fair, and accessible rules for everyone. A good shift swap policy clearly defines the company’s and employees’ responsibilities. It must address the following key things: 2. When staff will receive the shifts Shift swap is often the result of unexpected personal issues such as a child falling ill, school events popping up, or other workers asking for a shift trade. However, not being aware of their shift details in advance can be frustrating for workers. As a manager, it is your responsibility to provide them with clarity on who is working and when. It is how you can plan effectively and approve any shift swaps. Truein is a shift scheduling software and a time and attendance management app. Managers can create shift schedules and share them with the workers instantly. Workers can also mark their availability or absence Within the Truein workers attendance app on their smartphones. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 3. How much time will you give employees for upcoming schedules? One important inclusion must be the timeline for shift swaps. Train employees that they cannot ask for trading shifts too close to their scheduled shifts. It can disrupt the entire schedule due to the domino effect. Depending upon the business nature, you can set rules on how much time employees have to ask for a shift swap. For instance, 5 hours can be allowed as it is enough time for any other worker to respond to work as a tradeoff. 4. Shift swap approval process A formalized shift swap policy is essential to prevent any adverse consequences resulting from shift swapping at work, such as extra labor costs, worker no-shows, and unskilled workers added to the shift. With automatic scheduling software , such nuances of shift swap can be easily managed. To mitigate such risks, you must: Give supervisors and managers the veto power to review and approve shift swap requests from workers. Set timelines that prevent employees from requesting shift swaps too close to their scheduled shifts. Enforce workplace rules, training requirements, or permitted hours for a valid shift swap request. Allow shift swapping only between qualified employees within the same department or roles. 5. Disciplinary procedures for failing to comply with the policy It is essential to communicate with the workers what the company’s expectations are from them. Unless they know them, there is no way to fulfill these expectations. They must be aware of the disciplinary actions that can be taken in case they fail to comply with the shift-swapping policies. You must train employees and onboard them through a formal process to familiarize them with the swap shift process. Enforcing disciplinary action must be the last resort. Still, keeping employees in line with the shift swap policies is a continuous challenge; don’t be uncomfortable while enforcing the rules. Furthermore, you must ensure that all the disciplinary actions comply with federal, state, and local employment and labor laws. Conclusion Shift swaps are not only great for employee schedule flexibility, but they can be an excellent asset for any organization facing potentially understaffed shifts. This is a seasonal trend for most businesses when customer demand is high. Maintain a comprehensive shift swap work policy that reminds employees that swapping is allowed and recommended. It saves you from no calls and no-shows from employees. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? How To Create Attendance Policy for Your Manufacturing Plant? Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Facility Management Time and Attendance »  					6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have 6 Important Skills That Every Facility Manager Should Have July 25, 2024 Facility managers are essential employees for any business that operates in a physical location. These professionals are responsible for maintaining equipment, developing skilled staff, optimizing operations, and facilitating business growth. According to the International Facility Management Association (IFMA) , a qualified facility manager must be able to successfully optimize facility management operations and “ensure functionality, comfort, safety, and efficiency of the built environment by integrating people, place, process, and technology.” If you are planning a career as a facility manager, then there are some essential skills that you should focus on. In this article, we describe crucial facility manager skills that are essential for a successful career. Table of Contents Six essential facility manager skills 1. Communication 2. Team management 3. Create and manage the facility management budget 4. Time management and scheduling shifts for employees 5. Project management 6. Technology skills Three tips to improve your skills as a facility manager 1. Talk to your staff and know their problems 2. Provide goals and feedback to employees 3. Track productivity and check employees are working properly Conclusion Six essential facility manager skills 1. Communication Not just facility managers but any leadership role requires good communication skills. Whether written or oral, facility managers should be able to present ideas or communicate any other information in an engaging and motivating way. Facility managers often look after the workforce within the facility and must communicate with vendors, suppliers, and customers. This is why one of the critical skills for facilities managers is to communicate effectively. As a facility manager, you will delegate responsibilities, guide employees, explain ideas, suggest changes, and support customers. All these responsibilities require you to communicate transparently with stakeholders. 2. Team management Leading staff members is one of the primary facility manager skills and responsibilities. Any facility will have several workers across different departments, such as maintenance, cleaning crews, security teams, and logistic. Facilities managers must be able to manage and navigate individual employees at all levels. They must also be able to design weekly schedules , delegate jobs, and tasks, and make them perform as a team. You will often be confronted with situations where you must promote unity, resolve conflicts, and mediate issues between staff members. Without proper team management skills, you cannot deliver efficiently on these requirements. 3. Create and manage the facility management budget Facility management operation is greatly dependent on numbers. Essentially it involves inventory management, the number of hours workers work, operational cost, and budget forecasting. The basic foundation in financial math is another skill required from a facility manager. A responsible facilities manager must be able to create monthly, quarterly, and annual budgets. Operating a facility is an expensive affair. There are a lot of machines, extensive electrical systems, and equipment. Facility managers must be aware of the lifespan of appliances and equipment to create an achievable budget for maintenance or replacement. Budgeting is not only for forecasting, but it is also crucial for guiding appropriate staffing decisions that affect the overall facility management. As a facility manager, you must purchase software and other automation systems that meet the standards set by superiors. As one of your core responsibilities, you will complete budgetary assessments, create financial reports, and submit the facility management budget forecast to the management for review. 4. Time management and scheduling shifts for employees Facilities managers are solely responsible for maintaining a functional unit. It is their responsibility to manage projects and lead multiple teams. This is why time management is one of the critical facility manager skills needed to ensure that projects are completed on time and the workforce is appropriately trained. To ensure smooth functioning, facility managers must maintain records of the infrastructure, facility management operations, machines, and maintenance. Additionally, as part of staff management, they have to work on schedules and create staff shifts according to workload. Most facilities use software like Truein, a total employee time and attendance management system for time management and shift scheduling. An AI-based face recognition attendance system , Truein offers location-based attendance . Facility managers can use this software to track employees and ensure they are at their designated location within the facility. As facilities managers are also tasked with reviewing and assessing each worker’s performance and progress, they can use Truein to calculate overtime , absenteeism, leaves, and other employee attendance and scheduling reports. 5. Project management Project management falls within the scope of facility manager skills and responsibilities. Facility managers must follow the functional organizational structure to deliver on the project quality as the senior executives define. With project-based organizational structures, teams are given a degree of autonomy to manage projects as they see fit. Therefore, facility managers should have project management skills to deliver revenue and budget goals. If you are a proficient project manager, you can quickly move up the career ladder as the project requirements become more complex. 6. Technology skills By the nature of work, facility managers face dozens of daily challenges. Many of these challenges demand creative technological solutions. Fortunately, with the influx of so many new technical solutions, it is possible to automate many aspects of facility management operations. Counted among critical skills for facility managers, technological creativity is essential to build an innovative workplace. If you are not technologically proficient as a facility manager, you risk falling behind on many important tools. According to industry observers, facilities managers should focus on three critical aspects of technology to be successful. They must keep an open mind about new opportunities becoming possible due to technological advancements in service management, delivery, and reporting. Facilities management is a people business, so technology making it easier to manage people should be integrated into this service. For example, cloud-based technologies offer greater flexibility in managing the workforce due to their decentralized architecture. The facility manager should find a solution that keeps people and assets safe. Some technologies include IoT sensors that can detect faulty equipment, employee tracking software, and logistics management software. If you have these crucial facility manager skills, then you are ready to take up the challenge. However, if you think you need to improve your skills further, here are some tips. Three tips to improve your skills as a facility manager 1. Talk to your staff and know their problems Facilities managers should constantly communicate with their staff to know their needs and requirements. When you build a relationship with your staff, you can create a respectful work environment. You can use anonymous forms and other feedback tools to encourage employees to share their feelings regarding the work environment, duties, and culture. You are responsible for taking honest feedback and using the information to design work policies that provide satisfaction to workers. 2. Provide goals and feedback to employees Employee training and encouragement are required to motivate the workforce. You must provide each worker with appropriate assignments and achievable goals to help them improve in their role. As a facility manager, you must be aware of the skill sets of your workers so you can task them with duties managing their skills. Sharing honest feedback is also your responsibility once employees have submitted their work. Provide constructive feedback on the areas of improvement, and don’t forget to complement quality work. Goals and feedback are essential for workers as they take them as an indicator to develop skills and perform their duty better. 3. Track productivity and check employees are working properly You won’t be able to ensure optimal functioning and operations of the facilities until you track your employees’ productivity. Evaluating productivity is how you can track each employee and help them improve their skills. Facility managers can sometimes have to guide huge teams. To keep track of the productivity of such enormous groups, you need software like Truein. Such tools can help you closely monitor the performance and productivity of employees, helping facility managers identify the staff’s training needs. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion While a facility manager must have all the required leadership and managerial skills, the above-mentioned ones are crucial. Expertise in these skills can improve your job, separating you from average facility managers. We hope this guide will help you keep your skills shaft in an era where the role of facility managers is changing beyond on-site responsibilities. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Top 5 Must-Have Apps for Contractors 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software What is Timesheet Automation & Why Should Organizations Use It Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Manufacturing Time and Attendance »  					How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? July 25, 2024 The 2020 pandemic and the resulting high absenteeism made the manufacturing sector one of the most affected industries by employee absences in 2021 . But, absenteeism in the manufacturing industry existed long before COVID struck. While the problem isn’t new, it has become more severe. This has prompted organizations to look for concrete measures to curb the issue. This article discusses how to reduce absenteeism in the manufacturing industry through proper employee management and engagement. Table of Contents Top 6 tips to address absenteeism in the manufacturing industry 1. Creating an attendance policy and talking about unplanned absences in it 2. Focus on what your employee needs and their wellness 3. Incentivize employees with good attendance 4. Offer flexible work schedule 5. Engage with your employees 6. Keep track of employee absences Conclusion Top 6 tips to address absenteeism in the manufacturing industry 1. Creating an attendance policy and talking about unplanned absences in it The manufacturing industry has witnessed a shift in the workforce’s attitude toward the work-life balance. As the employee working habits and the industry is changing post-pandemic, our attendance policies must also be updated to accommodate the change. The most common reasons for absenteeism in the manufacturing industry are sickness, burnout, injuries, childcare demands, and the search for a different job. While it is impossible to include all the issues in your attendance policy, management has to ensure that the company maintains a fair, consistent, easy-to-understand, and enforceable policy. Make an attendance policy that complies with state and local labor laws. Also, a point-based attendance policy will clarify how the managers handle such leaves and the consequences of unplanned absences . It provides a tangible way for employees to understand the value of alerting the manager of their absence. 2. Focus on what your employee needs and their wellness It is not surprising that happy employees are most excited about their work. If your company provides for the workers’ physical and mental well-being, you will have a productive workforce. Improved well-being of employees means fewer sick days, absences, and last-minute schedule changes. The challenge is reducing absenteeism in the manufacturing industry and ensuring that your needs and requirements are tended for. You must train the line managers, the first contact on health and well-being issues within their team. They are responsible for the day-to-day decisions that affect the workers. Teaching them to be more emphatic, anticipating the employees, and encouraging open communication will help. 3. Incentivize employees with good attendance Rather than focusing on punishing absentees, organizations should reward good attendance. It is a constructive way to encourage workers to be punctual and sincere with their attendance. There should be a reward program to recognize good work. This will enhance an employee’s sense of ownership and improve their satisfaction. 4. Offer flexible work schedule Adopting a flexible work schedule can help companies bring down the number of absences. Workers now look for a better work-life balance. When you offer flexible schedules, employees have more time to spend with family and friends. It nurtures their emotional and mental well-being. Also, a flexible work schedule increases employee retention, reduces stress, boosts output, and improves workplace productivity. Managers should work on shift schedules to allow workers flexibility for personal reasons such as childcare or sickness. This will reduce unscheduled absences, and employees are more likely to abide by the company’s attendance policy . 5. Engage with your employees Why is absenteeism happening in the first place? Establish a dialogue with employees who are frequently absent. When you understand their motivations, it is easier to find common ground. But it might be difficult as people often are not comfortable discussing their issues directly. Therefore, you can use engagement surveys to allow employees to express their concerns or issues. Let them know their information will be kept confidential to start a healthy dialogue with the workers. The best employee engagement strategy is listening to your workers and considering their expectations when making workplace decisions. 6. Keep track of employee absences No manufacturing company can reduce poor attendance issues without proper attendance management. HR managers need to rein in and strategize how to reduce absenteeism in the manufacturing industry before the problem spirals out of control. Software tools for employee time and attendance tracking can help managers make decisions based on real-time data. Truein is a hardwareless time and attendance management software that provides extensive oversight and control over time off management. It tracks employee attendance in real time and has options to set and share attendance policies. Truein’s mobile time and attendance can be deployed directly on workers’ smartphones to record their attendance and track their location during work hours. As a complete attendance management software, it also offers shift scheduling and overtime calculation and is easily integrated with payroll software. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion To reduce absenteeism in the manufacturing industry, one must maintain a good workplace culture and schedule flexibility. time and attendance systems for manufacturing like Truein are also essential for reducing employee absenteeism . A manufacturing company should focus on regular worker surveys and ongoing training to engage and encourage employees. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 7 Ways To Reduce Absenteeism In The Workplace How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form