Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers Free Construction Timesheet Template in Excel: Time Cards for Daily, Weekly & Monthly Tracking of Construction Workers July 23, 2024 In every industry, employee time tracking is a norm. It is a way to decide the workforce’s productivity and ensure that employees are paid accurately for their work. However, employee time tracking is difficult in the construction industry as workers are spread across construction sites. In the construction industry, workforce management is complicated as not all workers can be trusted to show up for work or honestly record their attendance. Contractors and supervisors use construction timesheet templates to manage how workers spend their time at the job. This guide details everything about the construction timesheet template and its benefits and drawbacks. We will also explore how to automate construction timesheet keeping. Table of Contents What is a construction timesheet? Why do you need a construction timesheet? 1. To track the hourly pay of employees 2. For tracking historical work log 3. To be compliant with the government laws 4. For automating the payroll process How do you maintain construction timesheets? Download Free Excel Construction Timesheet Templates (Daily, Weekly, Bi-Weekly & Monthly) Disadvantages of using manual timesheet in construction 1. Discrepancies between actual working time and reported times 2. Not easy to track and schedule employees 3. Lack of productivity and lots of manual work 4. No way to automate and directly calculate pay and overtime Truein: A better alternative to manual construction timesheet What is a construction timesheet? A construction timesheet or time card is a manual timesheet used for recording the working time of contractors and construction employees to calculate the number of hours worked and payroll. A construction timesheet template records the task performed, employees punching time, and billing costs. Timesheets have been used in the construction industry for decades. These are excellent tools for tracking time, work, and payroll in any industry. The flexibility in the schedules is unique to the construction employees and contractors. Contractor timesheets are one of the best ways of employee time tracking in the construction industry. While you can download a contractor timesheet template free online, it is essential to understand how to use a construction timesheet for maximum productivity. But before that, let’s understand how a construction timesheet template is unique from traditional timesheets. First, construction timesheets record the start and end times for every activity instead of an exact number of work hours. Second, the work structure of the construction timesheet template is highly customizable lists because, unlike traditional client project tasks structure, the nature of construction work is different. Third, the construction timesheets use construction cost codes instead of actual task names as in traditional timesheets. Another distinguishing factor is that a contractor timesheet template is made around work and billing rates. As in the construction industry, profitability is the key metric instead of productivity; it is why construction timesheets are built to calculate costs and profits. Why do you need a construction timesheet? Construction timesheets provide a structure for a largely unorganized onsite workforce in the construction industry. Although construction workers deem timesheets as tedious and a way for their owners to micromanage them, in reality, construction timesheets can help expedite the payment process and ensure construction workers are paid accurately. Since many companies also use contractor weekly timesheet templates to appreciate hard workers, they serve as a performance review tool as well. Some companies also opt for construction time-tracking software Here are some significant reasons you need a construction timesheet template. 1. To track the hourly pay of employees Employee time tracking provides transparency throughout the construction business, and a project can be managed much more efficiently. When workers are honest and record their work time accurately, owners and managers can view how many hours they worked, more accurately. It provides valuable data to track employees’ hourly pay and precisely how much to pay them. The data is also helpful in giving feedback to the workers on their performance and helping them improve. 2. For tracking historical work log Using construction timesheet templates, owners and contractors can track the historical work log, giving them a better idea of the actual cost of a job. It allows them to be much more efficient in forecasting the estimates of future jobs. A historical work log also helps to understand the nature of the job if it’s similar to an old project. It helps reduce overall profit losses due to underbidding on future projects and assists in securing future jobs by avoiding overbidding. Timesheets are valuable resources for construction business management. 3. To be compliant with the government laws In the construction industry, workers are often exploited by long work hours without pay. Construction timesheets ensure that the construction business is compliant with government laws. You can ensure that you are paying labor accurately for their work hours. Additionally, you can use construction labor scheduling software to ensure compliance with regulations. It also helps to comply with the overtime rule and ensures workers are not forced to work beyond their shifts. Compliance is necessary for a business because it enables them to be on the law’s good side and create a healthy work environment for the employees. 4. For automating the payroll process Construction timesheets eliminate the guesswork from the payroll process. When you have accurate data on the hours worked and how many workers worked on the task, it becomes easier to bill and pay. The entire billing process can be expedited, and payroll systems become much more accurate. Using a time and attendance software like Truein , you can entirely automate the payroll process and drastically minimize the scope for human errors. Such tools allowed to import the timesheet data into the payroll software and automatically calculate billable hours by accurately converting minutes into hours. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How do you maintain construction timesheets? To maintain a construction timesheet, you can use Google Sheets, Excel, or any other data-keeping application. Paper timesheets are more straightforward but are not as efficient as the free construction timesheet template we share. We have created four formats of Excel construction timesheet templates that you can download and use without any modification. A construction timesheet records the Date, Day, Task, Time in, and Time out data. While the construction daily timesheet template is the easiest to manage, the construction weekly timesheet template has an additional field to record the day. Bi-weekly and monthly construction timesheet templates are just an iteration of monthly templates for two and four weeks. Download Free Excel Construction Timesheet Templates (Daily, Weekly, Bi-Weekly & Monthly) Using our free Excel timesheet template, efficiently track and manage labor and project hours . Click on the links to get started. Free construction daily timesheet template Free construction weekly timesheet template Free contractor biweekly timesheet template Free contractor monthly timesheet template Disadvantages of using manual timesheet in construction While a free construction timesheet template provides an efficient way to manage the workforce and payroll, it is also prone to human errors. As manual timesheet keeping entirely depends on the honesty of the workers and contractors, there is scope for manipulation and time theft . Paper timesheets are a logistical nightmare and can be easily misplaced. Due to severe disadvantages, a manual timesheet in the construction industry is not advised. Here are some of the common disadvantages of manual construction timesheets. 1. Discrepancies between actual working time and reported times Manual construction timesheets are susceptible to time theft. Workers can easily record the wrong clock in or clock out time without being noticed. There is no way to discover the discrepancy until it’s too late, and the project gets delayed because of time theft. Workers can also participate in buddy punching ; that is, a worker can ask his colleague to record time in his absence and report to work late and still get paid for a complete shift. The construction industry loses billions of dollars to time theft every year. 2. Not easy to track and schedule employees Timesheets are just a piece of paper that cannot be used to make shift scheduling decisions or to track employees. Manual construction timesheets result in poor efficiency in workforce management. The construction industry often struggles with tracking employees working at remote sites. Without centralized data, it is not easy to track or schedule employees. 3. Lack of productivity and lots of manual work Building on the point above, manual construction timesheets have no scope for automation. Managers and owners must go through a lot of manual work to calculate billable hours and set shift schedules. Such manual workforce management leads to work productivity. It can take hours or even days to conduct payroll or set schedules when all the data has to be compiled and sorted manually. 4. No way to automate and directly calculate pay and overtime Without any automation, there is no way to integrate the data from manual construction timesheets into the payroll software. All the calculations must be done manually to calculate pay and overtime. The task is not only mammoth and cumbersome; it often results in frequent human errors that require correction. It also results in inaccurate paychecks. Truein: A better alternative to manual construction timesheet The construction industry has also benefited from adopting automation like other industries. construction time and attendance software like Truein make it easier to accurately manage the workforce and pay them. Truein is an AI-based facial recognition employee time tracking and attendance software used by some of the biggest companies in the construction industry. It offers accurate time tracking for construction workers based on GPS tracking and geofencing. Workers can download the Truein app on their smartphones to record attendance accurately. This eliminates the requirement of additional hardware or paper timesheets at the construction site. By accessing the GPS within their phones, Truein can track the workers’ location accurately and ensure they are at the site where they are supposed to be when they record the attendance. Furthermore, it easily integrates with all popular payroll software, automating time tracking and payroll process. We hope you understand the essential construction timesheets and how you can automate the process with Truein. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Effective Attendance Management: Utilizing Time Tracking Tools for Contract Workers 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software Managing Seasonal/Temporary Workers in Construction: Best Practices for Efficiency Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? What Is An Employee Time Clock and Why Do You Need It? July 23, 2024 Paying employees accurately and on time is necessary for a business of any size. It also constitutes a major part of attendance keeping. HR managers are responsible for meticulously streamlining the payroll process. Automatic attendance systems like Truein enable businesses to simplify payroll and automate workforce management, but many companies still rely on traditional attendance-keeping methods. This usually involves manually tracking employee timesheets, calculating overtime hours, and converting minutes to hours before the salary can be calculated. Such an approach uses valuable time and too many resources to ensure company policies are followed and workers are paid correctly. Systems like employee time clocks allow workers to input and manage their hours. It eliminates the burden of the managers and supervisors manually recording, collecting, and verifying employee attendance. Furthermore, these systems can be integrated into the payroll software, streamlining the entire process. In this article, we will learn everything about time and attendance clocks and how companies use them to their advantage. Table of Contents What are employee time clocks? The 5 most common types of employee time clocks. 1. Punch Card Clocks 2. Digital Employee Time Clock 3. Time Station Software 4. Biometric employee time clock 5. Application-based employee time clock Why are time clocks important? Five benefits of using the time clock 1. It Saves HR time and money 2. Helps to decrease fraud in attendance 3. Make it easier to track overtime and cost 4. Helps to increase productivity 5. Decreases absenteeism Truein: The most efficient employee time clock Conclusion What are employee time clocks? An employee time clock is a device often used to record the start and end times of hourly workplace employees. Most modern time and attendance systems like Truein are capable of offering employee time clock functionalities. Several types of time and attendance clocks are available that you can choose to install within your organization. A face recognition time clock like Truein offers better security over other biometric and punch-in employee time clocks. Depending on your business and the kind of work environment in your company, you can choose the most suitable time clock app for small businesses . The 5 most common types of employee time clocks. 1. Punch Card Clocks The simplest type of employee time clock allows employees to insert a paper card when they arrive or leave work. The clock stamps the time and date on the card that indicates their shift’s start and end time. Many small businesses prefer punch card clocks due to their simplicity. However, these clocks are prone to time theft practices such as buddy punching . Also, they cannot be used by companies that employ remote workers. 2. Digital Employee Time Clock A digital employee time clock uses a swipe card with a magnetic stripe instead of a punch card. Workers swipe the magnetic stripe through a machine that records the time and date of the employee. Another variation of a digital clock is an electronic touchpad that doesn’t require workers to use a card. Instead, they can input a PIN into the machine to automatically save the punch-in data. The HR managers can then import the stored data for payroll. 3. Time Station Software Time Station software is an employee time clock that allows workers to clock in and out through a computer. There is a dedicated computer that employees utilize for all punch-ins. Some businesses also integrate time station software with a personal computer that allows employees to enter the time at their workstations. Many IT and software companies use such software. One of the most significant advantages of time station software is that the data can be integrated with the payroll software system. It makes it simpler to conduct payroll later. 4. Biometric employee time clock A biometric time clock uses a person’s human traits, such as fingerprint, Iris, thumb impression, etc., to record the attendance and shift timing. The fingerprint time clock is the most common type of biometric clock used in companies. Workers put their fingers on a scanner that identifies them by matching them with the fingerprint data stored in the database. The clock marks the attendance and punch-in time if the match is accurate. Organizations prefer biometric fingerprint employee time clocks because they can prevent buddy punching and any other time theft frauds . Another benefit is that workers don’t have to remember code or carry a punch card. However, biometric time and attendance clocks are not suitable for every industry. For instance, workers’ fingers are usually covered in dirt or oil in the mining industry, making it hard to punch in. Portability is another issue as these biometric attendance systems are in a fixed position and need dedicated hardware with sensors to read the feature (fingerprint, iris, retina, etc.) and record attendance. 5. Application-based employee time clock Such employee time clocks use a mobile or web application to authenticate clock in or clock out employees’ time. Truein is one such employee time clock that authenticates an employee based on their facial features using their smartphones instead of any biometric devices. It is a complete no-hardware solution, that depends on modern smartphones for employee identification and attendance recording. Why are time clocks important? Time and attendance clocks are necessary for an accurate representation of the shift. It helps workers and managers know when they start working and when they finish. Timekeeping devices help HR managers to keep track of employees and to ensure that they are not spending too much time here and there while at work, such as taking a too long lunch break or frequent breaks in between. The employee time clock is also necessary to ensure that employees work only the specified hours and not more. An adequate time and attendance management software ensure that workers are honest with their shifts and working when they’re supposed to be. The punch-in data can also provide evidence to confront irregular and unpunctual employees. This ensures that there are no productivity or efficiency issues within the workforce. Time clock software can be integrated with payroll software, making it much easier for HR managers to calculate and pay salaries. Payroll integration also helps to comply with labor laws and ensure that employees are getting paid correctly for the number of hours worked. In the absence of employee time clocks, payroll management can be tedious and cumbersome for the HR department. Five benefits of using the time clock 1. It Saves HR time and money Time clock software automatically collects and calculates the attendance data enabling HR managers to spend less time verifying attendance data. Managers and supervisors must no longer sort through hundreds of timesheets to conduct payroll. There is no conversion of minutes to hours or overtime estimations, so there is less room for human error. Employees are accurately paid for the number of hours worked. Inaccurate calculations can cost businesses a lot, as correcting payroll errors is a long process. Employee time clock software eliminates any room for human error and boosts the productivity of the HR department. 2. Helps to decrease fraud in attendance Employee time clocks eliminate the possibility of time theft frauds. facial recognition time clock apps like Truein utilize AI to identify and record employees’ attendance. Such timekeeping software can also use GPS to ensure that employees are at the location they are supposed to be when punching in. It is a valuable feature for manufacturing, construction, and mining industries where workers are distributed over a large area. geofencing attendance system can ensure that employees are present at the required site and not fraudulently marking their attendance from somewhere else. 3. Make it easier to track overtime and cost As accurate employee attendance data is available, employers can see the number of hours workers work and identify areas with expensive labor. It assists companies with labor cost management. Another advantage of an employee time clock is that it can quickly help you recognize employees using the most overtime to complete work. HR managers can estimate the accumulated cost due to overtime. It will help managers make more informed decisions and ensure no one is exploiting the overtime policies within the company. 4. Helps to increase productivity Time and attendance clocks can positively impact the productivity and efficiency level of the employees. As workers have immediate access to payroll data, they can self-assess their performance and make improvements wherever necessary. When they are informed with accurate data, they can address the attendance issues, and the management can take the steps needed to increase productivity. 5. Decreases absenteeism Absenteeism is serious trouble for organizations as it can cause constant interruptions in business operations and decrease productivity. Furthermore, when some employees are absent regularly, it can hurt the morale of hard-working workers. Time clocks are excellent devices to track workers who tend to be absent frequently. Truein: The most efficient employee time clock Truein is a face recognition-based time and attendance system designed to boost workforce productivity and plug revenue leakages. Comes with 70+ automated policies, this employee time clock software does not require any additional hardware for deployment. Employees can use their smartphones to punch in. It offers advanced attendance management policies such as GPS targeting, geofencing, overtime calculations, leave management , and shift scheduling . It is a cloud-based centralized attendance system that companies across industries use to automate and streamline their payroll management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion An effective employee time clock is essential for accurate payroll and efficient labor management . Whether a small business or an enterprise, time and attendance management are the core requirements for a profitable business. Manual timekeeping wastes resources, so you must invest in time clock software. The time and attendance clock automates attendance and payroll management, prevents time theft, and enforces shift schedules based on workforce analytics. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws 6 Reasons of Why You Should Never Use A Free Time and Attendance Software Paid Time Off (PTO) Guide- Everything you need to know about what’s PTO Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Truein Help and Support Videos FAQs Contact Us Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Getting Started You will be able to setup your Truein account and get started. 1:49 min Staff Registration You will be able to add all of your staff individually or in bulk, and their register their baseline face so that they can begin their time clocking. 1:21 min GPS Geofencing Setup You will be able to setup geofencing for your staff so that they can clock-in or clock-out from a specific geolocation. 1:22 min Regularization (Time Correction) You will be able to update your staffs' time in case they forget to clock in or clock out. 1:06 min Leave Management Setup You will be able to customise the leave types and policies. Also, you can either assign leaves to your employees or they can apply for leave, which can be approved or rejected. 4:16 min Account Setup Truein Terminology Guide How to setup such that a user will be automatically clocked in and out based on their schedule? Explore More General Support How to generate ID Card with QR scan code? What are the various hours and days calculations available in Truein? Explore More Geofencing How many Geo-fencing locations can be tagged with a staff ? As an Admin, can I change the geofencing location which is assigned to the staff? Explore More Leaves How to setup a leave structure where the Admin allocates the leaves to staff? What all leave related options are available for admin/manager ? Explore More Reports How will admin get the details of the staff who have marked Early Out? How to download reports? Explore More Shifts Can we assign multiple shifts to staffs? What does grace time in shifts mean? Explore More Integration Explore More Employee Setup, Onboarding What will be the login credentials for staff? How to assign Contractor Agency to Staff? Explore More Regularization How to reject approved Regularization request? How to disable regularization request? Explore More User App Is there an option to allocate WO and shift from user app? What is the clock symbol I see on my user app? Explore More Log a Ticket Contact Us No access to log a ticket. Please write us at support@truein.com +91 93099 87376 ​​ support@truein.com​ or contact us on +91 93099 87376 ​​ support@truein.com​ Products Open menu Industry Open menu Solutions Open menu Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Open menu Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Proudly powered by WordPress . Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form