Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Geofencing Time and Attendance »  					What Is Geofencing and How Does It Work? What Is Geofencing and How Does It Work? May 28, 2024 Geofencing is an important technology, especially with the increasing number of intelligent devices. Existing for a few years, businesses now see geofencing’s full potential. One of the predominant uses of the technology is in the marketing domain for targeting local ads. Another domain that uses geofencing technology is the employee attendance tracking system. According to market reports , the geofencing market is expected to reach US $ 1,825.30 million by 2022, growing at a Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 27.5%. What supports such buzzing growth of this technology, and how it works? Let’s find out. Table of Contents What is geofencing? How geofencing works? Geofencing applications and uses 1. Social networking for location-based stories, posts, and ads 2. To send in-store promotions to users 3. Security for people and devices 4. Companies use it to monitor employees' location The future of geofencing Conclusion What is geofencing? Geofencing is a location-based service for an app or software that uses GPS, Wi-Fi, RFID, or cellular data to trigger a pre-programmed action when a device enters the pre-determined virtual boundary set up around a location as a geofence. The technology can trigger several actions depending on the application. In advertising, it is used for mobile push notifications, trigger text messages and alerts, or displaying targeted ads on social media. In security applications, geofencing tracks vehicle fleets and disables certain technologies, or provides authentication. Some secured areas use a geofence to manage traffic. Whenever someone enters or leaves the secured area, an alert is generated. Businesses can benefit from employee attendance systems like Truein that use geofencing to monitor workers on the field, automate the time and attendance recording, and ensure employees are present at the designated site when punching in. How geofencing works? First, a developer or administrator has to set up a virtual boundary for a specific location in GPS or RFID-enabled software. It is the same as setting location on Google Maps when we put the radius for a certain distance. In mobile applications, Google Maps API is used to enable geofencing. Once the targeted device enters the virtual geofence, the response is triggered. In mobile applications, the geofence is hard coded within the application because the users have the option to opt-in to enable location access for the application for the geofence to work. An example of such use is when people visit a concert or an event. They get an option to download an app automatically to get more information and instruction about the event. Modern devices like iPhones also have geofencing capabilities that users can implement. For instance, iPhone users can set up iOS Reminders triggered when they reach a chosen address or location. The functioning of a geofence is based on the “if this, then that” command. In this approach, the app’s action is programmed to trigger a movement based on another activity. For instance, some home automation apps have set up rules like “If I am 3 feet away from the door, turn on the lights.” We used examples of mobile applications to make it easier for you to understand the work. Geofencing is a technology that has myriad applications in the shipping industry, agriculture, mining, and drone technology. Geofencing applications and uses As the use of mobile devices is rising, the scope of geofencing technology is broadening. Today, it has become a standard practice for many businesses to use geofencing to identify and target prospective customers. The number of opportunities it offers for micro-managing actions is vital for marketing and social media applications. It is an easy way to target competitors’ customers with geofencing. Many retail and hospitality businesses set up a geofence around their competition. When customers approach the boundary, they get a push notification with an offer prompting them to visit the other establishment. Similarly, retail stores use geofencing to offer customers coupons when they enter the vicinity of their stores. But let’s take a closer look at what geofencing is used for in different sectors: 1. Social networking for location-based stories, posts, and ads The most recognizable use of geofencing is by social networking websites and apps to serve location-based content to users. For instance, Snapchat has location-based filters, stickers, and shareable content, made possible due to geofencing. Facebook also uses the same technology to provide more relevant content like nearby events, people, or offers. Google’s Adwords ad network uses geofencing to trigger ads at a particular location. When searching for a service or content, Google ads are served based on your location. 2. To send in-store promotions to users It is easy to understand that the ability to target an audience based on its location opens limitless marketing opportunities. From serving location-based ads to delivering in-store promotions, geofencing can help businesses increase the ROI on their advertisement and marketing spending multifold. When you can target an audience based on their location, you save costs and spend on running broader marketing campaigns. Digital ads are entirely dependent on geofencing technology to provide targeting features. With millions of brands running billions of ads, it is impossible to reach with right people with the right offers without this technology. The caching technology, when combined with geofencing, allows advertisers to serve ads to people who visited the geofenced location even when they leave. 3. Security for people and devices There is no denying that geofencing can be an invasive technology, but it is solely dependent on how developers and engineers propose to use it. On the contrary, geofencing can enable more security for locations, people, and devices. An example is Android’s ‘Locate My Phone’ or ‘Unlock My Phone’ features that work based on the device’s location. 4. Companies use it to monitor employees' location Companies use geofencing for workforce management. There are software solutions like Truein that allow companies across industries to track employee time but with the added assurance of ensuring workers are indeed present at the geofenced location when they clock in. It is making it easier for companies where workers spend most of their time off-site fieldwork to manage and accurately pay the employee. Truein is a face recognition employee time tracking and attendance software . Its cloud-based architecture supports geofencing by default. You can easily automate time cards and monitor the location of employees when they are clocking in or out. With Truein you can also check on workers taking too long or frequent breaks during work. Apart from location targeting, it also offers overtime calculation, leave management , attendance policy creation, and easy integration with most payroll software. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account The future of geofencing If you pay attention to the “targeting” aspect of geofencing technology, you can assume how it can be risky in specific scenarios. Location-based marketing has privacy concerns, and many people are uncomfortable with the idea of their location being tracked by apps or businesses. This is stirring laws, and Massachusetts became the first state to enact a consumer protection law restricting location-based marketing. Despite privacy concerns, geofencing technology is steadily growing. Experts believe the growth is sustainable because of the “technological advancements in the use of spatial data and increasing applications in numerous industry verticals.” Conclusion We hope this article gives you a clear explanation of what geofencing is and how it works. With the digital penetration of the internet, it is possible to reach people with the offers and services they want and when they want them. Geofencing has applications in many industries and is expected to keep growing amidst privacy concerns. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? How does an Online Attendance System Work? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					What Is Overtime and How To Calculate It? What Is Overtime and How To Calculate It? May 20, 2024 For companies, overtime is a serious consideration, given its financial implications on the bottom line. If your workforce is limited and you have to manage overtime for a few workers, it can usually be done using a paper system. But as the company grows or you expand to several locations or countries, it becomes complex to comply with overtime laws. There are several factors to consider, and you need proper tools to record and calculate overtime. This article explores what overtime is and how to calculate overtime easily. Table of Contents What is overtime? How to calculate overtime pay? 1. Single hourly rate 2. Multiple hourly rates 3. Daily rate 4. Piece rate How to automate overtime calculation? Conclusion What is overtime? Overtime pay is the wage paid to employees who work more than 40 hours a week. The federal overtime law entitles workers working more than 40 hours a week should get paid more than their regular base pay. As per Indian Labor laws, employers are required to pay double the normal wage rate for the number of extra hours a worker puts in at the workplace. In the United States, Federal overtime laws mandate that employees who work more than 40 hours in the week should be paid at least time and a half for the overtime hours . For example, if a worker’s regular wage is $20 an hour, they must be paid $30 for each hour of overtime they put in. Overtime is essential in the American workforce law enforced by the U.S. Department of Labor’s Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA). Previously, the overtime law was that an employee was not entitled to extra pay until they had worked 44 hours a week, but later on, it was amended to a 40-hour workweek. Overtime is a valuable strategy for employers and employees. It allows companies to meet the increased production demand with the same number of workers without hiring contractual staff. On the other hand, the workers can make an additional income by putting in more hours at their convenience. That being said, for any company, it is essential to check overtime expenses because it has profound economic implications. The overtime calculation is a complex process that requires accurate timekeeping of the number of extra hours. Managers are responsible for accurately calculating overtime pay and ensuring that their overtime policies comply with state and local labor laws. Let’s find out how to calculate overtime accurately. How to calculate overtime pay? To calculate a worker’s overtime pay, you must accurately determine their overtime hours and usual hourly wage. These are the two inputs that we use for further calculation. 1. Single hourly rate The simplest way to calculate overtime pay is the single hourly rate. Suppose a worker gets paid $10 an hour and works 60 hours per week. Given the standard of 40 hours work week, they work 20 hours overtime. Their overtime pay will be calculated as follows: $10 x 1.5 (overtime rate) x 20 hours of overtime = $300 Total pay: $400 + $300 = $700 2. Multiple hourly rates Let’s assume that an employee does two jobs in your company that pay him different hourly pay rates. The first one pays them at an hourly rate of $ 25 for 20 hours per week, and the second job pays them $ 15 hourly for 30 hours per week. In this scenario, their regular wage rate for the week will be the average of the two pays. The overtime will be calculated as follows: Average weekly pay: $25 x 20 hours + $15 x 30 hours = $950 $950/50 hours = $19 Overtime pay: $19 x 1.5 (overtime rate) x 10 hours of overtime = $285 Total Pay: $950 + $285 = $1235 (total) 3. Daily rate If an employee is paid $100 a day for five days a week for 50 hours, then to calculate their regular rates, we need to divide the weekly income by the number of hours. Here’s how the overtime is calculated in this case: $100 x 5 = $500 $500/50 hours = $10 (regular rate) $10 x 1.5 (overtime rate) x 10 hours (overtime) = $150 Total pay: $500 + $150 = $650 4. Piece rate The piece rate overtime calculation is used by the companies that pay workers for every product unit. Suppose a worker at a mobile phone assembly unit is paid $1.50 for each phone completed. If they meet 500 phones in a standard 40-hour workweek, their pay will be: Five hundred phones × $1.50 piece rate=$750 If the same worker puts in an additional 10 hours and produces another hundred phones, then his overtime pay will be calculated as follows: Average week pay: $750/40 hours = $18.75 Overtime pay: 10 hours × $18.75 = $187.50 How to automate overtime calculation? Now that you understand what is considered overtime and how it is calculated, you should consider tools that can automate overtime calculation. Several employee time and attendance tracking software are available that feature overtime calculation. Truein is one such software for employee time tracking that is already adopted by hundreds of companies globally for accurate overtime calculation. Truein is a cloud-based, face-recognition employee time-tracking system with an inbuilt overtime feature. This hardware-less attendance system can track and calculate overtime automatically without any intervention from the managers or supervisors. It also features additional capabilities like leave management , shift scheduling, overtime policy management, and automatic report generation. It can be deployed as an app on workers’ smartphones to record overtime hours easily. Geofencing and GPS-tracking are included features that allow manufacturing, construction, and mining companies to optimally track the overtime of workers employed at a remote site. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Overtime calculation and payment are essential for any business. Failing to pay overtime accurately makes your business susceptible to lawsuits from current and former workers. It can also put you on the wrong side of the law. For instance, any company failing to comply with the FLSA’s overtime rules can pay 200% more than overtime in the first place. This is why you must use overtime management software like Truein that manage overtime efficiently to ensure that your employees are paid accurately every time. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is Double Time Pay & A Half, When Is It Mandatory & How To Calculate It? How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					What Is Employee Self-Service, How It Works and What Are The Benefits? What Is Employee Self-Service, How It Works and What Are The Benefits? May 28, 2024 A degree of self-reliance is essential for employees in any organization. Many companies have employee directories, a highly desirable HR tool. A survey shows that 73% of US employees prefer self-service HR tools. Just as consumers can do transactions with online banking or self-checkout at supermarkets, the workplace can also have a certain degree of autonomy and automation. With employee self-service (ESS), your workers can request time off, record attendance, track work time, and much more. In this article, we discuss how your company can benefit from ESS. Table of Contents What is employee self-service (ESS)? How does ESS work? Five benefits of employee self-service (ESS) 1. An employee can view their data and apply for leave easily 2. Data is centralized, accurate, and can be easily accessed by managers and employees 3. Saves HR time 4. Easily manage remote employees 5. Compliant with government laws Conclusion What is employee self-service (ESS)? Employee self-service is a system that offers significant automation for the HR department to work more efficiently and save valuable company resources. At the same time, it increases data accuracy by enabling employees to take up some administrative matters on their own. For instance, workers can add, update or delete information about them without interference from managers or supervisors. This improves the accuracy of the data as workers are not likely to commit errors when recording their details. As the need for a digital workplace is increasing, and organizations are adopting digital transformation, it is becoming increasingly necessary to look for solutions beyond Excel spreadsheets and word documents. ESS offers a digital solution for companies to automate workforce management, save valuable working time, create transparency and ensure data accuracy, all of which increase employee satisfaction. How does ESS work? Automation of various administrative functions is what an employee self-service system is about. Modern software tools help companies gain employee access to different functions. The ultimate goal here is to optimize the administrative processes by allowing workers to perform specific tasks such as time tracking, attendance recording, annual leave planning, and updating staff information on their own. For instance, when a worker requests leave, it is sent to the superiors, who can validate it with a single click. This gives freedom from visiting the human resources and printing out leave requests for approval. With ESS, the working hours can be tracked and monitored within seconds, which helps with overtime calculation, shift scheduling, and much more. Furthermore, employees can handle and edit their information keeping it correct without visiting the HR manager. A self-service system significantly increases the workforce and the HR department’s efficiency. Five benefits of employee self-service (ESS) 1. An employee can view their data and apply for leave easily One of the essential ESS benefits is the ability for employees to manage their paperwork and edit any errors. This gives them the freedom to keep the employment information up to date and include any relevant changes without seeking permission from HR. Workers can also use an employee self-service system to apply for leaves digitally and instantly. 2. Data is centralized, accurate, and can be easily accessed by managers and employees Data centralization is at the core of ESS. For any company to accurately manage employee data accessible to workers and managers, it must be kept at a central location. This brings transparency and accuracy between teams, departments, and workforce management. 3. Saves HR time Understanding how an employee self-service system can save valuable HR time is not complex. Employee time and attendance systems like Truein can dramatically improve time and attendance recording for any industry. It is a cloud-based, face-recognition attendance system that updates data in real time at a central location. HR managers can easily see employee attendance, overtime, leave requests, and absences, create attendance policies , and put GPS and geo-fencing based on rules. Truein integrates with most payroll software, saves a lot of time, and minimizes the scope for any human error in salary calculation. 4. Easily manage remote employees Employee self-service systems are entirely decentralized and often use cloud-based infrastructure, making them accessible from any device and location. This is why it can be used for managing remote as well as in-house employees with equal ease. As employees can access the ESS system from anywhere, there is no need to manage a different system for remote employees. 5. Compliant with government laws It is challenging for companies with large workforces spread across different states or even countries to comply with several local and state labor laws. An employee self-service system can help be compliant with government laws. Several government regulations, such as EEO, OSHA, and FMLA, have stringent reporting requirements. With an ESS system, you can help reduce human mistakes and easily avoid penalties, fines, or potential lawsuits. Some systems also come with the ability to generate reports in the required government format for easy reporting. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion If, as a manager, you are struggling to manage the workforce’s leave and attendance, consider implementing an ESS system. With software like Truein, you can implement a successful employee self-service system increasing your company’s productivity and efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Employee Performance Metrics: 16 Types of Employee Performance Indicators and Benefits Shift Rostering Benefits & 5 Ways for Organizations To Optimize Employee Shift Management Effectively What Are The Benefits Of Employee Time Tracking? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form