Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Construction Time and Attendance »  					Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry May 24, 2024 Effective management is a critical requirement for delivering projects on time and within the stipulated budget in the construction industry. With over two-thirds of construction projects failing to reach the handover phase within the estimated budget, labor management in construction is mandatory. Table of Contents Why is labor management important? Tips for improving labor management in construction 1. Collaborate with the workers 2. Prioritize the health and safety of laborers 3. Choose a good workforce management software 4. Balance the skilled workers where required 5. Identify the issues that workers are facing 6. Give laborers all the tools and resource that is needed Conclusion Why is labor management important? In the construction industry, labor management is essential because it decides the company’s bottom line. The workforce is the most critical of all the resources utilized in a construction project. Laborers and skilled workers are required to keep units operation and projects on-site within budget and on schedule. This makes labor management in construction critical and requires a strategic approach. Managers must engage with laborers and workers individually to listen to their requirements and prioritize their needs. The laborers are directly responsible for the success and growth of a company in the construction industry. We share some helpful construction labor management techniques to help managers be better prepared to handle the workforce. Tips for improving labor management in construction 1. Collaborate with the workers Generally, a construction project involves several subcontractors who provide labor. Collaboration and good communication are necessary to ensure that all contractors are on the same page and there is an open line of communication with the workers. Construction projects are usually large, and proper construction labor management is necessary for the overall efficiency and effectiveness of the project. If you can facilitate seamless collaboration between the different groups of workers, then you will successfully minimize the errors that arise due to miscommunication. Also, any mistakes committed in construction work can be detected and corrected quickly and easily. It will prevent a domino effect that can cause project delays. 2. Prioritize the health and safety of laborers The construction industry is often marked with mishaps and accidents unless proper safety measures are taken. Labor management in construction must prioritize the health and safety of laborers. First, laborers must have reasonable working hours to ensure they are well-rested. A fatigued workforce will cause underperformance, and too much work will also reduce their cognitive abilities, which can lead to on-site accidents. Construction works involved operating heavy machines, handling hazardous materials, and working at dangerous heights. All of these risks pose a substantial danger to workers’ lives. Therefore it is mandatory to provide safety in the workplace. Project managers must have proper safety measures implemented at all construction sites. Furthermore, workers must cooperate by practicing safety measures. Laborers are more likely to stay with a company that emphasizes their safety. 3. Choose a good workforce management software Construction work needs long and tedious administrative work that involves accurately logging laborers’ time on the site, over time, daily reports, and estimates, managing a large number of workers, ensuring workers are present on-site when logging into the system, and much more. You will require reliable and efficient workforce management software to automate these tasks. Truein is a product of choice for many construction companies due to its robust, hardware-independent, and cloud-based time and attendance management application . Project managers can control attendance, overtime, report creation, leave management , shift scheduling, and much more using Truein. Workers can download the Truein app on their phones and clock in on-site. The core technology utilizes geofencing and GPS-tracking to ensure that workers are present on the designated site when they record their attendance. It is a highly efficient workforce management solution for the construction industry. It can save time and energy for project managers and HRs, reduce reporting and payroll errors, and decrease the overall construction labor management cost . Schedule a free demo today and try Truein in your organization. 4. Balance the skilled workers where required Invariably, there will be gaps in the workers’ skills when you hire them and what the project requires. An essential part of labor management in construction is creating an ecosystem to foster the development of the workers into skilled labor. This will require you to optimize the workforce utilization rate. Simply put, it means putting workers in roles that will develop their skills. 5. Identify the issues that workers are facing Construction site disputes can cause laborers to lose motivation. It can also create a hostile environment for workers, which must be avoided at all costs. The construction staff is a valuable asset for any company, and project managers must identify workers’ issues. With effective labor management techniques, it can be ensured that workers are not facing problems that are hindering their performance. 6. Give laborers all the tools and resource that is needed Another aspect of construction labor management is providing workers with the tools and resources they need to do their jobs smoothly. When allocating a budget to acquire new construction equipment, ask project managers what tools and resources are required to speed up the progress of the projects. Technology must be integrated with manual labor, which is why automated tools must be a priority. You must also think of the managers and provide them with tools to free them from repetitive paperwork and administrative tasks. Solutions like Truein free up management time for other responsibilities. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Labor management in construction is the stepping stone for a company. These labor management techniques in construction will take unpredictability out of the picture and improve your labor management approach. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 10 Construction Productivity and Efficiency Strategies To Improve Labor Output 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Shift Scheduling and Management »  					What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business What Is Shift Patterns, Different Types Of It and The Best One For Your Business May 24, 2024 Planning employees’ working hours according to the business requirements is necessary for any company. Unfortunately, a standard solution will not work, as each company has different requirements. For the mining industry, often round-the-clock work is required, while for manufacturing companies, extra work strength might be needed when there is increased demand. Maintaining sustainable shift patterns is beneficial not only for employers but also for employees. The shift schedules affect the day-to-day life of the workers, and unhealthy shift patterns can cause anxiety and lower productivity among workers. Managers must understand a shift pattern and create them to benefit the workforce. In this guide on shift patterns, we cover all these questions and more. Table of Contents What is a shift pattern? 5 Types of shift patterns 1. 2 shift 2. Night shifts 3. 4 on 4 off shift calendar 4. Staggered days 5. Rotating shifts Which shift patterns are popular? What is the best shift pattern? 1. 2 shift system: Best for manufacturing companies 2. Rotating shifts: Hospitality businesses 3. 4 on 4 off: Startups and business leaders How can you automatically maintain a shift pattern? Conclusion What is a shift pattern? The word shift pattern is often used interchangeably with shift schedule, but it is a broader term. A shift pattern is a unique combination of workers, working hours, schedules, and infrastructure that meet the company’s specific goals. Shift patterns are designed so that there are always enough workers available at any given time on the premises to ensure productivity is at an optimal level. The managers can create shift patterns depending on the company’s goals, available labor, and other resources. A company can require more than one shifting pattern depending on how the requirements for workers change. For instance, a factory might need a different shifting pattern when the production is unusually high. You must create the right kind of shift pattern that meets the requirements of the business and keeps the workforce satisfied and happier. 5 Types of shift patterns The ultimate goal of a shift pattern is to ensure that enough labor is available to keep services going or production at the optimum level at any given time. To achieve this, different shift patterns can be implemented. Here are different types of shift patterns usually implemented. 1. 2 shift It is a typical Monday to Friday shift pattern that is usually scheduled from 06:00-14:00 and 14:00-22:00. The staff is rotated once a week in this pattern. However, you can customize shift rotation depending on the company’s requirements. 2. Night shifts Night shift patterns are usually from 22:00-06:00. It is often combined with 2 shift patterns to ensure the availability of the workers 24×7. Night shifts are not usually preferred, so companies offer higher pay to encourage workers. You can speak with the workers to find out what shift they like and what compensation for night shifts can be. 3. 4 on 4 off shift calendar It is one of the most common rotating shifts that you will find in the construction and manufacturing industry. It relies on maintaining a fixed 12-hour shift for four consecutive days. The hard work is rewarded with four days off. 4. Staggered days In this shift pattern, workers work a 5 x 8 hours a day shift. It is usually spread over 6 or 7 days to ensure that weekends are covered for your company. In this shift pattern, workers get off during the week, not the weekend. The staggered day shift pattern is typical in the maintenance industry. 5. Rotating shifts Then we have the rotational model that can cover various schedules. It is a good option for companies with day and night shifts, such as construction. In the construction business, labor is often required around the clock. The rotating shift pattern allows to maintain the continuous work without stressing the workers. Which shift patterns are popular? Unsurprisingly, the traditional Monday to Friday-full-time shift pattern is the most popular. However, this is because of the large-scale adoption of this model. The actual answer varies from business to business. For instance, if you have a startup with a young and enthusiastic workforce, they would prefer longer hours for lesser days. In such a scenario, a 4 on 4 off shift pattern will encourage them to provide their best for 12 hours daily. Manufacturing and construction companies that employ a large number of workers prefer 2 shift pattern to ensure that workers are available in each shift and there is some time to hand over the work when the new shift begins. Our advice for managers is to engage with supervisors who work closely with laborers to know what work schedule they would prefer. Then the feedback can be matched with the business requirements to create an optimal shift pattern. What is the best shift pattern? There is no simple answer. Every shift pattern has its relevance depending on the industry and the type of workforce it employs. Let’s take a look at some of the best shift patterns. 1. 2 shift system: Best for manufacturing companies Companies that need to operate for long periods and require intense concentration can implement 2 shift system. As workers are liable to work for 8 hours, they can maintain their focus on creating products of the best quality. Also, some manufacturing companies have restrictions on working times for health and safety reasons. They can benefit from this shift pattern. 2. Rotating shifts: Hospitality businesses Establishments like hotels, restaurants, and leisure centers can have rotating shifts to allow their staff plans their personal lives. As this shift pattern has flexibility and familiarity, hospitality workers can better plan their day as they are aware of the shift changes a week before. 3. 4 on 4 off: Startups and business leaders It is the least common shift pattern and is reportedly used by new-age startups and some business leaders to work intensively without feeling burned out. How can you automatically maintain a shift pattern? Shift pattern creation and maintenance are complex. There are several factors to consider and even more variables as workers are involved. Automatic shift schedule management is the most efficient way to ensure the success of a shift pattern within your company, irrespective of the industry. Truein, an AI-based face recognition attendance system with shift scheduling, can help HR automatically maintain shift patterns. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less workforce management application with advanced shift scheduling features. Truein allows managers to track the attendance and availability of workers at any time. Staff can request shift changes using the Truein app. Besides shift scheduling, it offers leave and overtime management and easily integrates with payroll software. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate your shift scheduling and attendance management. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Shift patterns are essential for the operational needs of any business. We hope this guide served you best in understanding what a shift pattern is and how you can choose the best type from the shift pattern examples we shared. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Work Schedule Types: 21 Different Types of Work Schedules, Its Importance & How to Create One What is a Labor Management System, and Why Does Your Business Need One? Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? How To Improve Employee Attendance and Boost Their Productivity? May 24, 2024 For your company, an employee missing work for a day must not be an issue of concern. However, if it becomes a regular thing, then you are at risk of impacting bottom lines. Most managers deal with frequent leaves in a stringent manner which could be more conducive to a positive work environment. We understand that staff attendance is necessary to keep productivity and profits in control. There can be different reasons for absence, and as a project manager, it is essential to show compassion toward the individual circumstances of workers and laborers. An organization has limited influence on the employees outside of work hours. An employer can’t deal with personal issues; however, if there is a significant employee attendance shortage, you must know how to improve employee attendance. This article highlights ways to tackle the poor employee attendance issue. Table of Contents Six ways to improve employee attendance 1. Tell employees about your expectation 2. Create a clear attendance policy 3. Look for causes of poor attendance 4. Reward employees with good attendance 5. Offer flexibility in work schedule 6. Track time and attendance at work Conclusion Six ways to improve employee attendance 1. Tell employees about your expectation The workplace environment determines the acceptance level of frequent employee absences. In companies, if absence from work is not getting enough attention from the managers, it can set a wrong precedence for workers and laborers. Workers must know the employee attendance policy and the company’s expectations. For instance, in the construction industry, you must inform workers about the high-pressure environment when they join your workforce. Inform them that they can be expected to work long days when necessary. Taking absences for anything other than family emergencies or illness is not acceptable. This is the right approach, as employees will understand what kind of workplace culture they are part of. This will set them on the right path to take a few absences. 2. Create a clear attendance policy Most human resource managers wonder how to improve attendance in the workplace when too many workers are taking time off. The first administrative step towards improving staff attendance is to create and implement a clear attendance policy. Your company’s attendance policy must comprehensively describe the scope and expectations of the workers. It must also include the procedure to ask for a leave and the consequences of poor attendance. Your company’s attendance policy can vary depending on the industry and workforce strength. We already have a detailed guide on how to create a worker-friendly attendance policy . 3. Look for causes of poor attendance Poor attendance is not always an attitude problem but often a result of a more significant problem. If a worker needs to maintain good attendance, the managers and supervisors must determine the cause of poor attendance. Apart from injury or illness, there can be other factors, such as conflict with co-workers or supervisors, or issues with the working environment, such as heavy workload, skill mismatch, absence of proper tools and resources, etc. Before jumping to any disciplinary action, it is essential to explore improving employee attendance by fixing the underlying cause. Take your time to determine the root cause of poor attendance so you can take proper action under labor law. 4. Reward employees with good attendance Appreciation and acknowledgment go a long way in encouraging workers to give their best at work. You create a positive work culture when you balance the consequences of poor attendance with good attendance rewards. A simple reward program can take out the most significant roadblock, letting employees know that their punctuality and sincerity are being noticed. A reward program is enough for workers to keep doing what is expected – coming to work. 5. Offer flexibility in work schedule Not feasible for all companies, but you can offer flexibility in their work schedule. For instance, you can create multiple shifts at your manufacturing company to allow workers to switch shift schedules if they have any personal requirements to attend to. When workers have the flexibility to switch their shifts with co-workers and organically eliminate call-offs due to unexpected personal issues. Such flexibility should be properly documented and approved by the management so that workers can use it while managers can track and monitor such schedules. 6. Track time and attendance at work How to improve attendance in the workplace if you need to be made aware of the accuracy of the attendance data? If you want to improve staff attendance, then you need to be systematic about it. An efficient time and attendance tracking software will provide the necessary tool to monitor attendance and treat workers fairly. It is also helpful in ensuring that there is no favoritism at play and all workers are given an equal chance to take a leave if there is an emergency. It is not unusual for managers to play favorites, creating conflicts and resentment among co-workers. Truein is a robust cloud-based and hardware-less time and attendance management application that companies across industries can use to maintain fairness and improve employee absences. It uses an AI-based face recognition system to identify workers to record attendance, ensuring no malpractice such as Buddy punching or time theft . Managers can access all attendance data of the workers from the central dashboard and create flexible shift schedules. Creating Shift Schedules in Truein Even you can implement an attendance policy for the company within the Truein dashboard. Workers can request a shift switch with a co-worker, and managers are notified to approve such a request. Adding Different Attendance Policies In Truein Truein provides a good starting point to improve staff attendance by tracking absences and allowing managers to monitor staff attendance in real time. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein Attendance System in your organization! “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Before tackling the employee attendance problem within your company, it is essential to learn the root cause. Data is an invaluable asset here to improve staff attendance. We recommend using time and attendance software like Truein to track workers’ hours and leaves. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 24, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 24, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 24, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 24, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 24, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Efficient Employee Scheduling: Boost Productivity and Reduce Costs Time Tracking Software for Construction That Will Boost Productivity Boost HR Productivity: 5 Winning Strategies Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form