Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Time Management Tips To Increase Productivity In The Workplace Time Management Tips To Increase Productivity In The Workplace May 28, 2024 Time management is an invaluable skill that your workers might lack. An essential part of workforce management is strategizing workplace time management policies to ensure productivity. As a manager, it becomes your responsibility to ensure workers respect the time management policies of the company and give their best at work. But how will the workforce commit to time management when unaware of the principles? This is why you must know time management techniques at the workplace to facilitate a work-life balance for the employees. In this article, we will explore some tips to manage time at the workplace better. Table of Contents What is time management? Five tips for managing time at the workplace 1. See where you are spending your time 2. Create work schedules 3. Set time limits for tasks 4. Avoid doing multiple tasks at one time 5. Use a time-tracking tool Conclusion What is time management? For most workers, there seems to be insufficient time to complete the tasks within a shift. However, unless you are overly planning the workload, employees should be able to accomplish their tasks without struggling with the deadlines. Most probably, your employees are not aware of what time management is. You must explain it to them like we are defining it here. Time management is simply organizing and planning the amount of time within a shift to be divided among specific activities based on priority. Workers must allot the right time to the suitable activity effectively to be most productive. Productivity is a direct byproduct of efficient time management. Workers’ failure to manage their time can affect their productivity and the company’s bottom line. So how do you help workers with time management? Here are a few solutions. Five tips for managing time at the workplace 1. See where you are spending your time It is relatively easy for workers to lose track of time if they are not mindful of how they spend it at work. One of the most effective time management strategies for the workplace is to train your employees to be aware of how they spend their time. Supervisors can help workers prioritize their tasks based on the day’s requirements. When workers know how they will spend their time on each job, they are more likely to be on track to use their time efficiently. It will also help if you put workers with similar tasks on the same shift as they will be spending time on similar jobs and can keep track. 2. Create work schedules One of the most crucial time management techniques at the workplace is creating work schedules that ensure workers are most productive throughout the day. Simply put, work schedules must help employees finish the most pressing tasks in the early hours of their shifts. You can also encourage workers to maintain a shift schedule to-do list to manage their shifts better. You can also create a general work schedule that you can put on the floor for workers to refer to. When you put everything on paper, there is no confusion or anxiety among workers, and they know what tasks they need to perform during the day and in what order. For instance, if you manage a car assembly line, you can create a to-do list for the assembly line workers to follow. This will ensure they follow the plan instead of jumping between tasks. 3. Set time limits for tasks Unsurprisingly, if you leave workers to decide how much time they take for a specific task, things are never completed on time. Setting time limits for tasks is another efficient time management strategy for the workplace. You have created a to-do list for everyday tasks and prioritized them in order of urgency. The next step is to set time limits to keep operations smooth and flowing. You can decide how much time should be committed to a task before workers can take a break. For instance, machine operators in the manufacturing unit can be offered a 15 minutes break after every two hours of machine operation. This will provide enough buffer to dissipate stress from two continuous working hours and keep workers productive. This technique is known to help keep focus with the help of frequent breaks by reducing mental strain and maintaining motivation. 4. Avoid doing multiple tasks at one time It would help if you proactively informed workers that doing multiple tasks simultaneously will not make them more productive. We humans inherently expect that multitasking is one of the best management techniques in the workplace. Unfortunately, numerous clinical studies suggest that multitasking never works. Studies have shown that when workers switch between several tasks, they become less efficient and are more likely to commit errors. Managers and supervisors must encourage workers to focus on the job and not think about other distractions. You can discourage multitasking behavior by creating work schedules so that a limited number of tasks are given to workers, so they are relaxed about doing several things at once. Similarly, avoid sharing long to-do lists with workers as it can easily overwhelm them. 5. Use a time-tracking tool What can be measured can be improved. Hence, you can only expect to ensure time management at the workplace by tracking employee work hours. Managers and supervisors must know the work schedules, events, tasks, milestones, etc. A time tracking tool can help you know how workers spend their time at work. You can remain in control of shift schedules and quickly identify time management issues such as absenteeism and time theft . Truein is an excellent time and attendance software that can boast time management at the workplace. It is a cloud-based, hardware-less time-tracking solution that can be deployed on workers’ phones. Truein features geofencing and GPS-tracking to track employees in real time. It is essential for managers to ensure that workers are at their designated places during work hours. Apart from time management, this attendance management system also features leave management , overtime management, policy management, reporting, and advanced analytics. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein time and attendance software in your organization. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Time management is beneficial for employers and employees equally. It ensures workers are productive throughout their shifts without undue stress on workload. At the same time, employers can ensure that business operations and production meet the goals and deadlines every time. Implement these time management techniques at the workplace to facilitate your workers in accomplishing high productivity. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Increase Productivity and Efficiency in Manufacturing Importance Of Time Management In The Workplace and How To Improve It Tips To Improve Labor Management In The Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions Dealing with Late Employees: Strategies and Solutions July 1, 2024 As a business owner or manager at a large organization, you might often have to deal with employees who are late to work. To ensure proper time management and discourage unproductive behavior in the workforce, you must know how to handle late employees. This responsibility requires you to be ready to handle difficult situations where you must take necessary steps to stop their tardiness quickly. It becomes mandatory, primarily if the tardiness of a few employees is disrupting daily workplace activities resulting in conflicts among workers. But you must be careful and wisely decide how to handle employees late for work. It is only sometimes on purpose, and there may be unknown circumstances for continuous tardiness. Your worker might have childcare or medical responsibilities, which is why they are always late. Even hostile work environments or workplace bullies can also be the cause. Ultimately, as a manager, it is your responsibility to deal with latecomers at work, irrespective of the reason. For some businesses, a late workforce can wreak havoc, as a survey by the Heathrow Express found. According to the study, employee lateness costs the UK economy around £9 billion annually. It was noticed that traffic-related issues were responsible for 41% of tardiness cases, closely followed by transportation delays (29%) and unforeseen circumstances (25%). Table of Contents Seven tips for dealing with late employees 1. Talk to them as soon as possible 2. Set your expectations clearly 3. Create a late-coming policy 4. Be open to listening to the reason and providing assistance if needed 5. Praise them when their behavior is improved 6. Allow flexible work schedule 7. Use attendance system What disciplinary action you can take on late employees? Conclusion Seven tips for dealing with late employees Now that we understand that tardiness, if not appropriately addressed, can result in severe consequences for your business, it’s essential to provide tips on handling an employee who is always late. Let’s get started. 1. Talk to them as soon as possible As soon as you notice a pattern of tardiness, speak to the worker without delay. It is essential to be proactive in addressing the situation to set a clear tone that this kind of behavior will not be accepted in the workplace. Often, managers ignore a worker’s excessive tardiness long enough that they eventually react in anger. When you are responsible for your team, it is plausible that you will lose your cool and respond in a manner that can be termed as threatening to the employee. We don’t want that. Workers must be encouraged to discontinue arriving late continuously at work. However, it must be done strategically. You must schedule a time to talk with them at work face to face. Ensure that you have documentation of the worker’s tardiness when confronting them about the issue. It would help if you started a dialogue by asking them why they report late to work. 2. Set your expectations clearly Employee lateness is an inevitable part of owning a business or running a company. To minimize the chances of uncomfortable confrontations with workers who are always late, you can set the expectations clear from the beginning. You must inform the staff members of what is expected of them and that they know the shift timings and potential disciplinary actions that can be taken if they are chronically late. The easiest way to convey this information is to mention it in your company’s attendance policy . When employees are aware of the company’s stance on punctuality and have been chronically late to work can affect their employment, there are more likely to abide by work timing requirements. The habitually late employees should be informed that they must change their behavior or face disciplinary actions per the company policies. Again, it would help if you made facts available using dates and times when the worker was late. This will ensure there is understanding in communication. 3. Create a late-coming policy While you can include information about tardiness and the resulting consequences of your company’s attendance policy, maintaining a separate late-coming policy is much more effective. It would help if you used the late-coming policy to outline rules for being on time, including expectations for where the workers should clock in. This policy should be comprehensive and highlight the number of times an employee can be laid before it becomes an actionable offense resulting in disciplinary action from the management. Furthermore, detailed information about the corrective actions that will be taken to handle employees late for work must be included. While discussing with a worker who is constantly tardy at work, share this information in an email and other documents highlighting the consequences. 4. Be open to listening to the reason and providing assistance if needed There may be valid reasons why a worker is late regularly. Before concluding, ask the right questions to determine the root cause of the issue. Companies that lack employee engagement or recognition of fun deal with tardiness. Ensure that you are not committing the same mistake. Allowing workers to pitch in their voices and, if the reasons are genuinely concerning, then work on solutions to troubleshoot the issue. It is not only about how to handle late employees but how to tackle the reason behind such behavior. 5. Praise them when their behavior is improved If you notice an improvement in their behavior, offer praise. You must do it privately to avoid drawing attention to the issue or the progress. Acknowledgment is a great motivator, and when you compliment the employee for dropping their tardiness, you reinforce their positive behavior. As a proactive step, you can offer monthly/yearly rewards to your employees or setup an employee recognition program . Punctual and taking their jobs seriously. There is a psychological impact on chronically late employees when they see their coworkers receiving rewards for their punctuality. This approach encourages late employees to be on time. 6. Allow flexible work schedule Flexibility in the work schedule can be an option to handle employees who were offered late for work. For instance, you can decide when a worker can clock in. Suppose you allow workers to come in late by 30 minutes, then make it a policy that they have to work 30 minutes more to complete their shift. This flexibility in the work schedule will allow the scope to accommodate reasons such as traffic and public transportation issues. It will also build mutual respect and understanding between the employer and employees. The level of flexibility you can offer will depend on your business model, but every company should offer this option. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 7. Use attendance system Ultimately, you can use good employee time-tracking software to recognize any patterns of tardiness in the workforce quickly. An efficient employee time and attendance tracking software can help you keep track of your employees’ work time and find out how frequently they are late to work. Truein is one such efficient employee time and attendance management system . It is a cloud-based, hardware-independent solution for tracking employee time. You can use Truein to track the time and attendance of full-time employees and contractual and distributed workers. It supports policy creation and has 70+ policy templates you can customize per your company’s requirements. Schedule a free demo today and automate the leave and attendance management in your organization. What disciplinary action you can take on late employees? Disciplinary action for late employees can vary depending on the policies and procedures of the company. Here are some common steps that may be taken: Verbal Warning: The first step may be to give the employee a verbal warning, reminding them of the company’s expectations and their lateness’s impact on the organization. Written Warning: If the employee continues to be late, a written warning may be issued. This document should include details about the employee’s delay, the consequences of continued lateness, and a timeframe for improvement. Suspension: If the employee’s tardiness persists, a suspension may be necessary. This could be for a short period, such as one or two days, or longer, depending on the severity of the situation. Termination: If the employee’s lateness continues despite previous disciplinary actions, termination may be the only option. This should be a last resort and only be taken after all other options have been exhausted. It’s important to note that any disciplinary action should be taken under the company’s policies and procedures, and all employees should be treated fairly and consistently. Additionally, the focus should always be on correcting the behavior and improving performance rather than punishing the employee. Conclusion It is always challenging to handle chronically late employees. However, to ensure positive work culture and prevent a negative impact on the bottom line, it is essential to know how to handle late employees. You must follow through with the tips shared in this guide. You must execute the disciplinary actions consistently if the worker fails to correct their behavior. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 01, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 01, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 01, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 01, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 01, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Write A Late Coming Policy For Employees? 7 Effective Strategies for Managing Employees To Boost Productivity Human Resource Management Problems and Solutions Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? May 28, 2024 Business management requires utilizing available resources for maximum efficiency. Your workers are one of the most critical resources, and workforce management is essential to ensure your business is profitable. For any organization, the time a worker spends on a particular task translates into the company’s output when adjusted for the salary paid. You must have measures in place to accurately monitor employee time and attendance. Every year, time theft costs employers billions of dollars in lost revenue. Among the most widely adopted solutions, the biometric attendance system is one. This article will explore biometric attendance systems and how they work. We will analyze the scope of such attendance systems and how we can overcome the limitations. Table of Contents What is a biometric attendance system? How does biometric attendance system work? 5 Benefits of using a biometric attendance system 1. Eliminates time theft 2. Highly accurate as compared to other attendance systems 3. Prevents buddy punching 4. Automates the payroll process 5. No hardware or physical contact required Which industries should use a biometric attendance system? Conclusion What is a biometric attendance system? A biometric attendance system is a hardware-based or software-based solution to record employee attendance using biometric data such as fingerprints, iris, hand geometry recognition, face recognition, etc. As compared to traditional employee time and attendance systems, biometric solutions provide an advanced layer of security because they utilize specific attributes that are unique to an individual. In doing so, a biometric system eliminates the possibility of malpractices like buddy punching , in which a co-worker can clock in for a colleague using their time card. The biometric attendance systems are a significant upgrade to the existing time cards; however, their reliance on hardware limits their robustness and safety in a post-pandemic era. Software-based biometric attendance systems overcome this limitation with their robust and cloud-based design. How does biometric attendance system work? A biometric attendance system utilizes sensors to record and match the unique biometric attributes of the employees with the data in the database to allow clocking in and out of the workplace. As we mentioned before, these attendance systems are entirely dependent on hardware for performance. How the employee biometric attendance system works depends on the type of attribute it uses to identify workers. For instance, a fingerprint biometric attendance system uses sensors to scan the fingerprint of the workers. It then maps these on various coordinates defined within the system and compares them to the fingerprint data stored in the database. Each biometric entry is converted into a unique code that one person can only enter. This eliminates any possibility of using another employee as a proxy. The accuracy of a biometric attendance system is very high. However, it requires a clean environment for sensors to work as they cannot correctly read fingerprints and other biometric data. The existing hardware-based biometric systems are facing tough competition from software-based employee time and attendance systems. The new-age hardware-less attendance systems are cloud-based and can be remotely deployed at any work location. Furthermore, these systems do not use only sensors to read biometric data. They use advanced AI-based tech like face recognition that makes them much more suitable for hostile work conditions such as high temperatures in the mining field, humid environments of manufacturing units, and dirt-filled construction sites. Their touchless approach makes them a lot more accurate. 5 Benefits of using a biometric attendance system 1. Eliminates time theft This is the most significant benefit of using a biometric staff attendance management system in your company. Time theft is a common problem that costs companies a lot of money as they have to pay for the hour’s workers are not working. Even if you have an upstanding and honorable workforce, there can be times when some workers are involved in time theft. To discourage such behavior, biometric attendance systems are good options. However, if you are planning to upgrade to an attendance system it is better to invest in software solutions such as Truein. Truein can provide all these security features of a biometric attendance system that can safeguard against time theft. It is not a hardware-based employee time and attendance system, so companies in the construction, manufacturing, retail, facility management, and hospitality industries can deploy it without additional cost. 2. Highly accurate as compared to other attendance systems The accuracy of biometric attendance systems is incredibly high, which makes them suitable for any company. Due to the advancement of technology and the availability of susceptible sensors, no one can fake their attendance if the company uses a biometric attendance system. On top of that, these systems record clock-in time accurately without any errors. Please note that the accuracy is high, but there is a limitation to how the biometric attendance system works when the location of the device has high humidity, high temperatures, moisture, or dirt. The sensors lose efficiency, and workers are forced to try multiple times to record their attendance. Software-based biometric attendance systems that use face recognition and AI-based algorithms for efficiency are more reliable and efficient, as they perform accurately in any work environment. 3. Prevents buddy punching Buddy punching is when a worker blocks in for a colleague using the time card. Such an activity records inaccurate attendance of the absent employees, and employers pay for the hours workers have not worked. As biometric attendance systems use unique physical attributes to identify and record attendance, they eliminate buddy punching in the workplace. 4. Automates the payroll process Almost every biometric attendance system is compatible with the most commonly used payroll software. These systems also have an inbuilt capability to facilitate work calculation, attendance report generation, leave management , etc. The automation of all these administrative tasks makes the payroll process highly efficient. This frees up time for the managers to focus on essential business activities that contribute to the company’s growth. 5. No hardware or physical contact required As we mentioned, biometric systems are several types, and this benefit is particular to software-based attendance systems such as Truein. The software solutions require no physical contact to identify and record attendance. This is a significant advantage of switching to biometric attendance systems as the attendance keeping and facility operations are not affected by hardware failure. Cloud-based solutions like Truein are portable, require no additional peripherals, hence have zero maintenance cost, and can be centrally upgraded. Truein is AI-based and can identify workers with masks on or changing official attributes such as glasses. As this biometric attendance system is cloud-based, there is no requirement for additional peripherals to be installed at the construction site, facility, manufacturing unit, or anywhere within the company. Workers can download the Truein app directly on their smartphones to record their attendance. This software-based biometric attendance system is a complete employee time management solution as it allows managers to track the location of workers with geofencing and GPS tracking . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Which industries should use a biometric attendance system? Any industry where companies have human resource management and payroll should use biometric attendance systems. Almost any industry can use a biometric attendance system to make workforce management easier. Whether in manufacturing, retail, facility management, construction, mining, services sector, or any other industry, using a biometric attendance system can bring accuracy, automation, and efficiency to employee identification and attendance. Over 300 customers in more than 25 countries are already using Truein to optimize workforce utilization and plug revenue leakages such as time theft and erroneous work hours calculations. Our superior algorithms and advanced technologies are helping industries record the attendance of blue-collar workers in real time. Some brands that trust Truein for employee time and attendance management include Tata Projects, Fiat, Schindler, Dominion, and Godrej. Schedule a free demo today and see how it can help to automate the time and attendance management in your organization. Conclusion Now you know what a biometric attendance system is and how it works. For any industry, a biometric attendance system is a management tool that can offer several benefits including automation of workforce management, accurate payroll, and improved security. There is no better solution to track employee time and attendance with the added benefit of foolproof security, automation, and efficiency. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Biometric Attendance Systems | Revolutionizing Workforce Management in the Middle East Alabama Overtime Laws: A Complete Understanding Compensatory Time vs. Overtime: Understanding the Differences and Implications for Employees and Employers Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form