Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How Smart Attendance Systems Using IoT & Face Recognition are Changing the Modern Workforce How Smart Attendance Systems Using IoT & Face Recognition are Changing the Modern Workforce May 20, 2024 Post-Covid, companies are increasingly adopting touchless technologies such as smart attendance systems to make workplaces safer for employees and customers. According to Statista , post-COVID-19, the adoption of touchless interfaces such as facial recognition, touchless apps, etc., is on the rise. In India, 82% of people expected touchless interactions at the workplace or with other organizations during the pandemic, and 48% of them still want touchless technologies at work now. As more and more organizations use touchless sensing devices like a smart attendance system using face recognition, the touchless solutions industry is growing at 17.4%. It would touch $15.3 billion in 2025, more than doubling from $6.8 billion in 2020 . Table of Contents Why touch-based biometric attendance systems are a hazard? Rise of touchless IoT based smart attendance systems Here are some examples: Benefits of smart attendance system 1. Attendance tracking in real-time 2. Fewer errors because of minimum human intervention 3. Cost-saving because of lesser payroll error 4. Ideal for the contractual and distributed workforce 5. More secure than a manual attendance system 6. Small to big data- all can be managed easily 7. Automatic report generation for employees' working hours How can Truein help your organization with a smart attendance system? Conclusion Why touch-based biometric attendance systems are a hazard? Touch-based biometric systems’ dependency on human contact to function makes them a source of infection. Attendance systems that use attributes like fingerprint recognition , hand geometry recognition, or typing recognition require physical touch. The surfaces of these systems accumulate germs, bacteria, and viruses with each touch and, at the same time, distribute them. In the wake of the risk posed by touch-based biometric attendance systems, the Government of Delhi advised suspension of biometric attendance systems in March 2020 . Physical risks and the touch-based attendance system also stress out employees. Because of the coronavirus scare, employees at the Maharishi Valmiki Hospital in Delhi reported “psychological unease” when using biometric systems. As a result, the hospital suspended the use of these systems as a precautionary measure. Rise of touchless IoT based smart attendance systems Touch-based biometric systems offer an enhanced way to deal with time theft and buddy punching , but relying on hardware sensors that require physical contact makes them less sensitive in case fingers are smudged in oil or grease, or if workers are wearing hand gear. Post pandemic businesses have to adjust the existing infrastructure to minimize the need for contact. Solution providers utilized IoT or Internet of Things technologies to fill this requirement gap to offer touchless attendance systems. Many companies adopt IoT-based facial recognition attendance systems to automate logging and boost productivity. Here are some examples: Tata 1mg adopted Truein to automate attendance logging across their 14 facilities within a couple of days. The company is using Truein to record the attendance of their 2000 employees in real-time across geographical locations. Godrej Lawkim Motors is another brand using Truein to automate attendance logging and employee tracking in real-time . The company uses Truein to keep track of its 700+ employees with geofencing and GPS technologies. The far-reaching benefits make smart attendance systems a requirement rather than a choice in the post-pandemic landscape. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Benefits of smart attendance system An efficient smart attendance management system can help companies improve their organizational ethics and work culture. The benefits go beyond attendance logging. The main benefits include: 1. Attendance tracking in real-time Most modern touchless attendance systems are cloud-based. These systems log data in real-time. They can be used on mobile devices and personal computers; they help track employees for efficient management. Automatic attendance systems can provide direct payroll processing input to improve productivity further. All the information is available in real-time, making it easier to schedule shifts, delegate tasks, and manage absentees. Manufacturing industries can use these systems to track employees scattered over a large area without additional hardware. Attendance systems like Truein work on smartphones seamlessly. 2. Fewer errors because of minimum human intervention Manual attendance systems have a high error rate. As these systems entirely depend on human input, there are many issues. Sometimes employees can forget to log in their arrival time, and at other times, they willfully abuse the system by logging extended periods. With automated attendance systems, companies eliminate all these issues. These systems function without human intervention; they record data with high accuracy. Companies can rely on their data to analyze workforce behavior and make critical management decisions. Touchless face recognition attendance systems like Truein collect and log data in real-time. Therefore, there is no scope for employees to meddle with the system. 3. Cost-saving because of lesser payroll error Manual attendance systems are inaccurate due to human errors. Introducing highly accurate attendance systems saves companies much money lost through payroll frauds and mistakes. In the United States, businesses lose over one billion dollars every year due to time theft . A smart attendance system using face recognition can not only eliminate time theft but can also increase the productivity of the HR department by automating a large part of payroll management. By adopting a smart attendance system, your organization can save up to $1600 per employee each year. 4. Ideal for the contractual and distributed workforce Companies with distributed workforce require attendance systems customized for different time zones and locations. Smart attendance systems allow this customization feature to accommodate different time zones. You can also set various policies and payroll rules for employees based on their physical location. It makes it a lot easier to manage a distributed workforce. 5. More secure than a manual attendance system Most IoT-based smart attendance systems have highly secured architecture. As the primary goal of these systems is to log accurate timing, they thwart any attempts of time theft, such as buddy punching, reporting extra hours, and longer lunch breaks. Biometric systems use unique individual physical traits that cannot be transferred or copied. Organizations where security is a primary concern use smart attendance systems. 6. Small to big data- all can be managed easily As mentioned before, smart attendance systems use cloud-based infrastructure. One of the benefits of using the cloud is scalability. Companies can use these systems to store data of 10 or 10,000 employees with the same ease. Cloud infrastructure extends as the requirement for data storage increases. Once you deploy a face recognition-based smart attendance system like Truein, you will never have to worry about upgrades to accommodate more employee data. 7. Automatic report generation for employees' working hours A smart attendance system is cloud-based; it stores data in decentralized databases that can be accessed anywhere. The HR managers no longer need to go through tedious data sorting and manual timesheet retrieval to calculate salaries or overtime. Smart attendance systems provide analytical report generation tools. It drastically saves the time and effort required to create business insights to optimize the workforce and productivity within an organization. How can Truein help your organization with a smart attendance system? Truein is a touchless face recognition attendance system that uses IoT technology and AI algorithms to offer a centralized and foolproof attendance system. It is a smart attendance system designed for employees, contractual, and distributed workforce. Brands like Tata 1mg , Bajaj Allianz, and Titan trust Truein for their attendance management needs. Schedule a free demo today and try Truein attendance system that has extensive features like accurate face recognition even with a mask on, mobile/tablet-based operation, 50+ automated policies, real-time view, and multiple custom reports and analytics. Conclusion Smart attendance systems offer more than time logging. Modern-day face recognition attendance systems like Truein can be tailored to the specific needs of any industry. Automated workforce management, increased productivity, and satisfied employees are some of the benefits that make a smart attendance system a worthwhile investment. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Adapting to the Future: Why Middle Eastern Shopping Centers are Embracing Face Recognition Time Attendance Systems Biometric Attendance Systems | Revolutionizing Workforce Management in the Middle East Understanding Biometric Attendance Systems: How Do They Work? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					8 Disadvantages of Fingerprint Attendance System 8 Disadvantages of Fingerprint Attendance System March 31, 2024 With the exponential rise of smartphones, fingerprint sensing has become necessary for the masses. The use of biometric login for devices like mobiles, tablets, and even laptops is standard now. However, in the post-pandemic era, where the focus is on limiting physical contact, the same fingerprint recognition technology can prove to be obstructive. Many firms relied on fingerprint attendance systems to manage their workforce as they offered better security and automation. But, when COVID-19 struck, the same fast and non-invasive attendance systems became hotspots for spreading the infection. In the wake of the seriousness of the situation, state and local governments in India suspended the use of fingerprint biometric attendance systems . According to a Mint Report , a leading Indian telecom operator replaced 650 fingerprint-based attendance systems with facial recognition systems across India. A large steel-producing company embraced the exact change. These are some instances that bring forth the disadvantages of fingerprint biometrics. The limitations of fingerprint attendance system are not limited to just the fear of touch that affects employees’ mental and emotional states. In this article, we explore these disadvantages in detail. Table of Contents The drawbacks of depending on fingerprint attendance systems 1. Issues with recognition of damaged fingerprints 2. Deployment can be expensive 3. Fingerprint data can get stolen 4. Not ideal for remote and field workers 5. Accuracy is not as high as facial recognition systems 6. Less efficient than facial recognition system 7. Rate of error 8. Environmental challenges Why are face recognition attendance systems a better alternative to fingerprint systems? Truein: The Ultimate Face Recognition Attendance System The drawbacks of depending on fingerprint attendance systems 1. Issues with recognition of damaged fingerprints There is a lack of flexibility to identify the person in case of a cut or wound or when fingerprints are smudged with dirt or grease. Fingerprint sensors are sensitive, which works in their favor if the fingers are clean, but these sensors are inefficient for industries like mining, construction, and manufacturing. The workforce in these industries either wears safety gear like gloves or has dirt and dust on their fingers. It makes it cumbersome for them to record their attendance. 2. Deployment can be expensive Fingerprint attendance systems are entirely dependent on hardware and peripherals. It is often expensive to scale these systems as you will need to install hardware at every location. There is no alternative to investing in new hardware every time. For companies that have a primarily distributed workforce, with employees working on remote sites or massive production floors, disadvantages of biometric scanning become evident. 3. Fingerprint data can get stolen Fingerprint attendance systems often store data about physical traits such as fingerprint and palm veins in a local database. This information is linked with individual workers. It is essential to keep the data protected at times. Companies enabling fingerprint attendance systems have to deploy measures to prevent the data from being hacked or stolen. 4. Not ideal for remote and field workers Dependence on standalone machines is one of the significant disadvantages of fingerprint identification. Such attendance systems require dedicated hardware to record attendance. Companies cannot deploy standalone kiosks at fields or remote locations. 5. Accuracy is not as high as facial recognition systems Fingerprint attendance systems are not as accurate as facial recognition systems. Also, workers utilize tools and heavy machinery leading to wearing fingerprints for labor-intensive industries such as mining. It makes it difficult for machines to recognize the fingerprints leading to frustration. Workers have to fill out attendance sheets manually. Facial recognition systems are highly accurate as they do not depend on just set biometric attributes like fingerprints. Such systems use algorithms like Eigenfaces , Fisherfaces , and Kernel Methods that are highly accurate. These systems can recognize an individual even with changing facial features like beard, glasses, or mask. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 6. Less efficient than facial recognition system Fingerprint attendance systems are not as versatile or fast as face recognition attendance systems. Systems like Truein easily integrate with HRMS/Payroll software, increasing the productivity of the HR team. Fingerprint attendance systems are highly dependent on hardware, making them prone to performance issues. Hardware components get heated with heavy usage, which decreases their efficiency. 7. Rate of error Biometric attendance machines that use fingerprints are prone to two errors: False Acceptance Rate (FAR) and False Rejection Rate (FRR). When the system accepts an unauthorized person, it is a FAR error, while FRR occurs when the system rejects an authorized person. In studies, the total error rate of biometric systems is around 1% , implying that for an organization with 1000 employees, an error will occur for 100 employees when recording the attendance. 8. Environmental challenges Fingerprint attendance systems have high error rates under extreme cold or heat. As they depend on hardware, deploying them to locations where the climate is harsh or changes rapidly poses a challenge. Because of all these disadvantages of fingerprint recognition, companies are switching to face recognition systems. Why are face recognition attendance systems a better alternative to fingerprint systems? Adopting a face recognition attendance system can eliminate all the above-listed disadvantages of the fingerprint attendance system. Face recognition attendance systems like Truein work on AI-enabled algorithms that do not depend on physical touch to identify a worker, offering touchless safety. These systems have almost 100% accuracy and work with facial hair, changes in facial features, aging, masks, etc. Additionally, these systems do not depend on custom hardware to record attendance. Workers can download supporting apps on their smartphones to mark attendance. It is advantageous for companies with workers at remote sites or fieldwork. Truein: The Ultimate Face Recognition Attendance System An ideal alternative to fingerprint attendance systems, Truein is an AI-powered Touchless Face Recognition Based Time & Attendance System . It offers a complete attendance solution that eliminates the need for any complicated hardware. Its mobile/tablet app enables companies to replace standalone fingerprint attendance machines. It provides selfie-based geofencing, automated attendance reports, leaves management , and centralized controls. Watch this video on how easily Truein can be setup to simplify your attendance management. Check complete attendance management features that Truein offers here . Already, 250+ brands and companies are using Truein for their attendance management. Therefore you can also rely on their solutions for your organizations attendance management. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein attendance system works. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Electronic Attendance System vs Hardware less Attendance System A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? Attendance Policy: What It Is and How To Create It For Your Organization? June 25, 2024 Every company needs an adequate time and attendance policy to inform employees about the expectations of the organization and the consequences of failing to meet them. Employee attendance is a critical factor in the overall performance of an organization, and if not kept under check, it can lead to significant problems. According to the Center for Disease Control (CDC) , productivity losses resulting from employee absenteeism cost employers $225.8 billion annually, or $1,685 per employee. When your workers are aware of the attendance policy in place, it helps boost the productivity of your business. HR managers must remember that unexpected absence once in a while is alright, but regular absenteeism can severely impact the bottom line. Even if your company does not have an attendance problem, an effective attendance policy can help keep things organized. It communicates the attendance requirements to the employees. Here in this guide, we will explore the attendance policy in detail. Let’s start with the basics. Table of Contents What is an attendance policy? Why does an organization need an attendance policy? 1. HR Management 2. Cost Control 3. Maintaining Transparency How to write an effective attendance policy? 1. Don't use ambiguous definitions 2. Create employee protocols 3. Don't publish a policy draft without collaborating with employees 4. Enact the policy Attendance policy template How to track employee time and attendance? 1. Identify the tracking needs of your business 2. Choose the right time and attendance system Conclusion What is an attendance policy? An employee attendance policy is a document that defines the set of rules to reduce absenteeism, improve employee productivity and clearly explain expectations for employees in a consistent language. An employee attendance policy indicates the time to arrive and leave throughout the defined workweek. Furthermore, it clearly explains the violations such as arriving late, leaving early and being absent. It should also contain information on how employees should report their arrival and departure. The policy should help employees distinguish between acceptable and unacceptable absences. A comprehensive attendance policy also provides the logic and reason behind the creation and enforcement of the policy. Why does an organization need an attendance policy? As mentioned above, an attendance policy is essential to establish professional expectations from your staff. Still, most importantly, it provides a formal structure for reprimanding repeated non-compliance to the guidelines. Here are other benefits of implementing a well-defined attendance policy in your organization. 1. HR Management When there is an attendance policy to instruct employees, it becomes easier to allocate your human resources, such as employees, efficiently. For instance, a policy can include specific instructions for the workforce to report on the floor 10 minutes before a shift change to ensure that the assembly line runs smoothly. You can also have a specific notice period before taking a leave to allow enough time for HR managers to bring in replacement staff. An attendance policy can help efficiently use the workforce and distribute workloads to keep the operations up unabated. 2. Cost Control Employee absenteeism or lateness cost companies revenue which is why it is essential to keep a check on it. For example, suppose a staffer who is expected to open the business at a particular time is regularly late; it can tarnish the reputation of your business and make customers think of it as unreliable. With a strict attendance policy, you can modify such behavior and address it immediately to resolve the issue from becoming a problem. 3. Maintaining Transparency When the managers do not handle employees who are not punctual and take too many off, it demoralizes other staffers who come to work on time. It is also unfair to other employees to cover for regularly late staffers. With an attendance policy, you can prevent repeated absenteeism, eradicating any instance of infighting between staffers. By implementing an attendance policy, you send a message that you don’t take frequent absenteeism lightly and always take a formal approach to deal with the attendance issues. How to write an effective attendance policy? A good attendance policy takes an organization’s culture and needs into consideration. Depending on the industry, the requirements of your employees can differ and soak in the business environment. While every business has its unique requirements, here are some tips for creating an attendance policy for employees that is comprehensive and effective. 1. Don't use ambiguous definitions It is essential to have clear and concise definitions in an attendance policy so that employees can understand the requirements. Avoid using ambiguous terminologies at all costs. Clearly define tardiness, accused absence, unexcused absence, sick leave , paid time off , and half-day. For instance, when you describe tardiness, explicitly inform employees how much late they can clock in, like recording the attendance of more than 10 minutes late will be tardiness. 2. Create employee protocols There should be a clear protocol for all the workers when requesting leaves, time off, or going to be late. The attendance policy should fairly outline how an employee should alert managers and what actions will be taken if an employee does not show up without advance notice. 3. Don't publish a policy draft without collaborating with employees Once the first draft of the attendance policy with all crucial definitions and protocols outlined is ready, it is time to explore all possible scenarios. Add multiple sections and distinctions for workers and managers wherever necessary. The policy must include medical emergencies, climatic obstructions, and other unforeseen circumstances. The idea here is to create a fair attendance policy that managers should not use as a weapon against the employees; instead, it should protect their interests. To achieve this goal, you may want to share the draft with employees and seek their feedback within a limited time. Set up open discussions with employees to address any concerns or requests. It is essential to ensure that the attendance policy does not alienate employees. 4. Enact the policy After workers have reviewed the attendance policy draft, the final step is to enact a plan. You must ensure that both existing and new workers have access to the policy. It is also essential to train the HR managers to enforce the policy consistently and fairly for all employees if there are violations. These are the basic steps to writing an attendance policy, and we have provided them as a general guideline. To guide you further, here is a sample attendance policy. Attendance policy template Add a logo of the company here Introduction to Employee Attendance Policy: At [NAME OF BUSINESS] , good workplace attendance is one of the primary expectations from all employees. We expect every employee to take full responsibility for their attendance without compromising on the company’s policies. All employees are expected to arrive on time, be present, and work for the entire duration of all scheduled shifts. Any requirement for leaving work early, absences, and late arrivals must be arranged in advance by contacting prospective supervisors and managers. Placing “fill-ins” or coverage for missed shifts is the employee’s sole responsibility. Definitions Absence: Supervisor must be notified by the employee at least [duration] in advance. The employee will be absent from the assigned shift if the employee fails to notify supervisors [duration]. Unscheduled absence: An employee informs the supervisor immediately before the shift starts that they will be absent from the shift due to an emergency or other unexpected causes. Failure to notify the supervisor can result in the absence being counted as a “no show” or result in [consequence]. [Number] unscheduled absences will result in [consequence]. Tardiness: When an employee arrives at work at least [duration] minutes after the scheduled shift start. If the employee shows up later than [duration] after shift start time, tardiness will be recorded as an absence. After 20 tardies, the employee will be subject to [consequence] . No-show: If an employee fails to show up for a shift without notifying the supervisor, it will be a no-show. After 20 no-show, the employee will be subject to [consequence] . After 20 consecutive no-shows, the employee will be terminated. Sick days: Employee is absent from shift due to illness or doctor’s note. The employee’s sole responsibility is to notify the supervisor in case of illness or medical emergency. Otherwise, the absence will be counted as a “no-show.” Include additional guidelines about your company’s visions, goals, and responsible management. Information can include why it is essential to enact this policy. How to track employee time and attendance? Drafting and enacting an attendance policy is just one part of the job. To fully benefit from the procedure, you should have measures in place to track the time and attendance of the employees . For this purpose, you can install an attendance system. However, before you choose a product, it is essential to: 1. Identify the tracking needs of your business There is a significant difference in tracking the needs of businesses as their requirements differ. Several solutions are available to track employees’ time and attendance, but the choice depends on your requirement. For instance, if your company is in the IT industry, you will need an attendance system to track employee working hours and busy times on desktops. If you are in a domain like manufacturing and mining, your workforce will be distributed over a large area, and a standard attendance system will not work. You will need an attendance system with GPS-enabled tracking that can be used with minimal hardware. It will also help to choose a time and attendance management system that integrates with your accounting or payroll software to increase the productivity of the HR team. Such an attendance system will make dealing with time theft , absenteeism, and attendance regularization easier. 2. Choose the right time and attendance system Depending on the requirements above, you must choose an attendance system that can handle the HR requirements. Truein is a new-age face recognition attendance system that utilizes the power of AI to track and record attendance. The attendance system is cloud-based, enabling businesses to deploy its solutions for remote sites and field workers. This geofencing attendance system can ensure that the staff marks their attendance from a specified location. Furthermore, it offers features like mobile punching, leave management , the ability to create reports and set alerts, and easily integrates with accounting systems. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion We hope this guide provides you with a proper guideline for writing an attendance policy for your business. Irrespective of your business nature, it is essential to create an approach that boosts productivity and helps employees understand the attendance expectations without making them susceptible to exploitation. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is Shift Swap Policy and How To Create It For Your Organization? How To Create Attendance Policy for Your Manufacturing Plant? Attendance Regularization: What It Is and Why Is It Essential For Your Organization? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form