Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Payroll Management »  					Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide Payroll Fraud: A Complete Guide May 20, 2024 Running a business requires effort on all fronts. You must ensure that production is always at optimum level and that workers are satisfied with the company culture. Another critical aspect of managing a company is safeguarding against defrauding activities like payroll fraud. Stealing within an organization can take place in many ways, such as stealing raw materials and machinery, infrastructure vandalism, and time theft . However, payroll fraud is the toughest to detect because it’s often concealed. In its simplest form, payroll fraud involves an employee or the employer manipulating the payroll system within the organization to take the money they are not entitled to. For small and medium businesses, payroll fraud can be a significant obstacle. Such companies must be protected against payroll fraud schemes because payroll frauds are two times more likely to happen at small and medium-sized companies than at larger organizations. It can take multiple routes, from misclassifying employees to using ghost employees . We created this complete guide on payroll fraud to help you understand how it affects the business and what payroll fraud prevention methods you can implement. Table of Contents What is payroll fraud? Six different types of payroll fraud 1. Misclassification 2. Timesheet fraud 3. Ghost payroll 4. Third-party payroll scams 5. Workers’ compensation fraud 6. Commission schemes How to detect payroll fraud Can you take legal action against employees for payroll fraud? How to prevent payroll fraud? 1. Use tools to avoid timesheet fraud 2. Understand staff classification 3. reate clear workers’ compensation policies Conclusion What is payroll fraud? Payroll fraud occurs when an individual illicitly changes the company’s payroll system to manipulate the calculation of employee compensation to their own benefit. It’s a crime that employers or employees can commit. Staff commits payroll fraud by indulging in malpractices like time theft when they clock in the hours that they do not work. Some employees secretly increase their compensation rate by manipulating the payroll system, which can amount to payroll fraud. Employers can commit this fraud by withholding the wages of the workers. This way, they benefit from what they owe to the staff. Simply put, payroll fraud is a mechanism that one of the parties utilizes to enrich themselves by deceitfully stealing from the other. Six different types of payroll fraud As we mentioned before, payroll fraud can take several forms. As an HR manager, you must know the most common types of payroll fraud. Here are some common payroll frauds that can be avoided by being vigilant. 1. Misclassification Workers provide different classifications depending on the number of hours they work, their job role, their relationship with the company, and other details. For instance, workers are often classified as full-time, part-time, or contract workers. When employees misclassify their status in the payroll system, they steal the benefits they are not entitled to. Sometimes, employers misclassify workers willingly to save costs like unemployment taxes, staff benefits, and payroll taxes. Any intentional misclassification is termed payroll fraud and makes the employer or the employee liable for legal consequences. 2. Timesheet fraud In companies, timesheet fraud is the most common type of payroll fraud. When workers manipulate the working time that they record in the timesheet to get paid for more hours than they worked, workers can commit timesheet fraud by padding the work hours by clocking in extra hours in the timesheet. Also, they may access the payroll system to falsify their wages and increase their hourly pay rates. 3. Ghost payroll When companies pay nonexistent staff unwittingly, it is termed ghost payroll. This payroll fraud is typically committed by someone in human resources who has easy access to the organization’s payroll system. The perpetrators of this type of payroll fraud create fake staff in the payroll system or do not remove the staff any longer employed with the company. In doing so, they falsify the employment records to keep collecting money from the organization in the form of the ghost employee’s paycheck. 4. Third-party payroll scams Some payroll frauds can also be committed externally. Often, employers think payroll frauds can be committed only internally, but scams like W-2 and payroll diversion schemes have third-party perpetrators. A W-2 scam is a sophisticated type of cyberattack where a cybercriminal tricks employees or HR managers into handling sensitive employee information. The perpetrators use this information, including employee ID, income records, and other sensitive data, to file fraudulent tax returns. In a payroll diversion scam, perpetrators manipulate the staff into changing their direct deposit information. While workers think that the paychecks are cashed into their bank accounts, the money is transferred to cyber criminals. This type of payroll fraud is often committed by sending staff fraudulent emails or hacking into a company’s payroll system. 5. Workers’ compensation fraud One of the frequently faced payroll fraud schemes in the construction and mining industry, worker’s compensation fraud, is when a worker fakes an injury or falsely claims that an injury occurred at work to collect workers’ compensation. This type of payroll fraud can badly impact self-insured companies. Alternatively, this can have a worse impact on the insurance companies that may resume the rise of workers’ insurance premiums. 6. Commission schemes Some employees may receive bonuses or commissions attached to their sales targets. Also, some companies offer incentives to contractual workers for hitting milestones such certain percentage of project completion. The aim of providing such incentives is to encourage staff to work harder and excel at their jobs. But, some staff may figure out loopholes in the commission schemes to avail the commissions or bonuses they didn’t earn honestly. This is a commission scheme fraud which is punishable as payroll fraud. Another type of commission fraud is committed by contractors who agree to provide a certain number of workers on site but avail fewer workers saving on the labor cost while charging companies for the agreed number of workers. While these are some of the most common payroll frauds, there can be other types of employer payroll frauds depending on your organization’s business model and payroll system. The only way to be secured against such fraud is to know how to detect them. How to detect payroll fraud Payroll fraud schemes are notoriously difficult to cover. As there are several compliance laws that a company must follow, it becomes easier to identify such frauds if your organization continues to implement compliance policies stringently. However, there is always scope for human error. Also, as technology improves, cybercriminals are carrying out extremely sophisticated payroll frauds that can be difficult to identify. The financial implications can be devastating if it continues for a long time. According to the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners , a typical payroll fraud scheme lasts 24 months. There is no simple solution to detect payroll fraud schemes. There is no definite indicator of payroll fraud, but some red flags that can help you with payroll fraud prevention. Errors or gaps in payroll records are the first signs of payroll scams. You must be diligent with payroll records auditing. Any unexplained changes in the payroll records also indicate an attempt to commit fraud. Staff listing identical addresses or bank account details in their records might be attempting to commit payroll fraud. Unexpected emails were sent to staff regarding payroll without the knowledge of managers. There are unaccounted transactions in the company account which has no valid source. This can be committed by cybercriminals having access to the payroll system. These are some of the warning signs that must be acted upon immediately. Remember, there are several types of payroll fraud, and it is essential to regularly review your company’s payroll and accounting records for discrepancies. Modern payroll software has built-in features to detect any anomalous activity related to payroll records. Furthermore, payroll automation is the best way to identify any irregularities sooner and save monetary loss to the business. Can you take legal action against employees for payroll fraud? There can be several payroll fraud schemes, but the severity level is also varied. Whether it is a felony or not depends on the law of the state where payroll fraud is committed. However, the more money a fraudster steams from the company, the harsher the legal consequences. An employer can file a lawsuit against any employee who commits payroll fraud. Employers can sue to recover the stolen money and seek punishment as per the law against fraud. As payroll fraud falls under the purview of labor laws, you will have to consult your local lawyer to fully understand the legal actions you can take against such fraud. Employers and employees have legal rights to sue for back pay if their employer has illegally withheld their wages. But it would be best to act quickly when you find out that your employer is committing payroll fraud. According to law, the stature of limitations is two years for unintentional wage violations and three years for intentional wage violations to report any payroll fraud committed by the employer against the workers. How to prevent payroll fraud? Prevention is better than cure. This is why you must take the steps necessary for payroll fraud prevention. While lawsuits and recovery of stolen money are secondary steps, first, you must ensure all measures are taken to mitigate fraud. 1. Use tools to avoid timesheet fraud You must ditch paper or excel timesheets and switch to automated staff time and attendance management software like Truein. Truein is a state-of-the-art staff attendance management software that’s cloud-based. It uses face recognition and AI to recognize staff and record work hours. Its temper-proof engineering ensures no manipulation of the attendance or overtime records. Furthermore, Truein integrates with most payroll software that ensures no timesheet fraud is committed at any level. It also eliminates buddy punching and offers advanced features such as leave management , attendance policy, contract worker management, and real-time staff tracking. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account 2. Understand staff classification As a manager, you must understand staff classification. Misclassifying staff not only has financial implications but is also against the law. For instance, IRS’ Employer’s Supplemental Tax Guide for worker classification guidelines severely penalizes workers for misclassification. 3. reate clear workers’ compensation policies Create clear policies around reporting workplace injuries. Your workers must know who to report workplace injuries to, when, and how. Install security cameras at work sites so that any potential workplace injuries are recorded as evidence. It is how you can prevent workers’ compensation fraud. Conclusion Payroll fraud is a felony punishable by law, but its financial implications on the overall business can be devastating. It can happen to small and large companies, which is why there must be measures for payroll fraud prevention and early detection. As the consequences can be more than loss of money and can result in privacy invasion, you must implement the solutions we have shared in this guide. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Managing Payroll for Small Businesses: A 10 Step-Guide for Payroll Management for Small Business What Is Timesheet Fraud and How To Prevent It? 3 Common Payroll Problems and Practical Solutions To Overcome Them Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers A Comprehensive Guide to Sick Leave Policies for Companies and Managers March 31, 2024 Every once in a while, workers call in sick. For a company, it is obligatory to allow them time to recover from sickness. It works for the benefit of both workers and employers. This is why federal and local regulations have a provision for sick leaves. Failing to comply with the rules makes an organization susceptible to fines and legal actions. We created this detailed sick leave policy guide to help companies and managers understand what it is and why it is mandatory to maintain. Table of Contents What is sick leave? What are the rules regarding sick leave policy in different countries? Sick leave rules in India Additional paid sick days laws: Sick day policy in the US Sick leave as per the UAE Labour law Does sick leave have to be paid? Sick Leave for Contract Employees What to include in a sick leave policy? A sick leave policy sample/template Scope Policy elements How do sick days work? Unused sick leave policy Procedure Should employers ask to provide a doctor's note as proof of illness? Do employers have to pay for unused sick leave? How to implement and manage sick leave policy? Conclusion FAQs 1. How does paid sick leave benefit an organization? What is sick leave? Sick leave is paid leave that companies provide to workers when they feel unwell or ill. These leaves are not part of the paid vacation time, and every employer has to offer it mandatorily to the workers as per the law. Sick leaves are also titled medical leave, sickness absence, or sick days in company policies. Depending on the company’s location and the local laws, the employers’ obligations and employees’ entitlements to the sick leave policy differ. When managers create the employee sick leave policy, they must consider several factors, such as how many sick days employees can take, how much the company can pay them for sick days, and the eligibility criteria. There is often a difference between the sick leave policy and procedure for short-term and long-term illnesses. What are the rules regarding sick leave policy in different countries? Laws are present in all countries that make statutory sick leave compulsory at all companies. Employers must comply with these regulations and provide workers with paid sick days per local law. Sick leave rules in India Most of the sick day policies at a company/organization are set under the State’s Shops and Establishment Act. But there are other applicable laws specific to the role or the industry. As per the Indian Shops and Establishment Act , sick leave policies must provide the following: Minimum 0.5 to maximum seven days (paid) sick leaves For sick days, extending three days, employers can ask for a medical certificate Sick leaves can be appended with earned leaves Sick days are not carry-forwards or encashments and lapse automatically at the end of the calendar year Additional paid sick days laws: Apprentices Act, 1961 – Section 15 (Rule 13) makes it mandatory that interns or apprentices can avail of medical leave for a maximum period of 15 days in a year and, in case of accumulated leave, up to 40 days in a year. Plantation Labour Act, 1951 – Section 32 governs the sick leave policy for employees in the plantation industry and entitles workers to get sick leave by company policies. Working Journalist and Other News Paper Employee’s (Conditions of Service) and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1955 suggests that employees will be eligible for one month of medical leave for every 18 months of service and will be paid half the wages. Sales Promotion Employees (Conditions of Service) Act, 1976 – Section 4, any employees under this act can have a sick leave of not less than one-eighteenth of the service period at half the wages. Sick day policy in the US In the United States, currently, there are no federal legal requirements for paid sick leave. However, for companies under the Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA) , unpaid sick leaves must be provided to workers. According to FMLA, employers must provide up to 12 weeks of unpaid leave for certain medical situations for workers or their immediate family members. Also, companies can substitute paid leave for unpaid FMLA sick day leaves. Workers who have worked with their current employer for at least 12 months are eligible for FMLA leaves and must have worked for at least 1,250 hours over the previous 12 months. Sick leave as per the UAE Labour law Under the UAE Labour law , a worker is entitled to sick leaves of not more than 90 days per year at the end of the probation period. The 90 days’ sick leave can be continuous or intermittent, and the salary paid will be as follows: full payment for the first 15 days half pay for the next 30 days no pay for the rest 45 days However, workers can get sick leave without pay, subject to the approval of the employer and based on a medical report issued by the medical body recognized by the government. Does sick leave have to be paid? As clearly highlighted in the above section, the rules regarding paid sick days differ per country and state. In India, paid sick days must be provided to workers for seven days as per the Shops and Establishment Act, but additional provisions depend on local laws. For US employees, there is no provision for paid sick days. The employees who themselves or their immediate family members falling under the FMLA Act are allowed unpaid sick leaves by the law. The UAE Labour Law is most generous, making it mandatory for companies to offer up to 30 paid sick days to the workers. Sick Leave for Contract Employees Sick leave for contract employees can vary depending on the specific terms outlined in their contract and the laws and regulations of the jurisdiction they are working in. Unlike permanent employees, contract employees may not always have access to the same benefits, including sick leave. What to include in a sick leave policy? A comprehensive and employee-friendly sick leave policy outlines the company’s code for employees who are ill and are unable to attend work. Your company’s sick leave policy must include: The scope explains how sick leaves work. Rules regarding unused sick leaves. The procedure to apply for sick leaves. A sick leave policy sample/template Our company’s sick leave policy outlines our company’s provisions for employees who become sick and need to be absent from work. The following sample policy specifies how sick leave will be accrued and how it may be used. Scope This company sick leave policy applies to all our employees who have been with our company for at least [X months.] Policy elements Our workers may only be able to perform their duties if they get sick. Our company follows legal guidelines that may apply to sick leaves and pay to provide a healthy work environment. We’ll also offer [X days] of [paid/ partially paid] sick leave. This leave is separate from other types like maternity leave and Paid Time Off (PTO). How do sick days work? Our workers can take sick leave when they want to: Recover from sudden illness Recover from accidents/injuries Receive mental/psychological care or counseling when necessary Employees who want to attend routine healthcare (e.g., doctor’s/dentist’s appointments) should use their PTO. Unused sick leave policy Employees will receive [X] additional day/s every [1 year] working for our company. Depending on the law, employees can accumulate unused sick leave until it reaches a certain number of days. Unused sick time may be calculated for employees’ annuity when they retire. Procedure When workers want to use their sick time, they should notify their supervisor as soon as possible. They should also inform the supervisor for how long they’ll be absent (if possible) or report daily for every day of sick leave. Under certain circumstances, employees might need to submit a physician’s note or other medical certification and/or complete a sick leave form. Those circumstances include but are not limited to the following: Being absent for more than [X days] on sick leave. Cases when a pattern arises result in auditing the sick leave application (e.g., employees plead sick at a specific time each week.) The company will handle all sick time requests with discretion. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Should employers ask to provide a doctor's note as proof of illness? Usually, managers should only ask for proof of illness if the workers apply for an extended leave or if managers see a pattern originating. It is not uncommon for workers to exploit the company’s sick days policy. If you find a worker asking for sick leaves repeatedly, you can ask for proof of illness. Unless necessary, it is better to avoid asking for illness proof to show that you trust workers’ ethics and sincerity. Do employers have to pay for unused sick leave? Employers must provide paid sick days to workers if the company is registered or operating in India or UAE. However, there is no provision forcing employers to pay for unused sick leaves. It is entirely at employers’ discretion if they choose to pay for unused sick leaves. How to implement and manage sick leave policy? Depending on your industry and the workforce size, there are several ways to implement a sick leave policy. Most large organizations have human resource management systems for maintaining such policies, but companies in industries like manufacturing, construction, mining, retail, and facility management require more efficient solutions. Truein is a hardware-less, cloud-based time and attendance management solution that offers comprehensive leave management features . It is already trusted by over 300 brands across 25 countries for improved workforce management. It allows managers to implement leave policies easily and do month-end calculations. Not just for sick leaves, Truein has a robust leave management process for managing daily/hourly leaves, carry forward leaves, or customized leaves. You can also enable the sandwich leave policy to auto club usual week offs with the paid leaves. Sandwich leave feature in Truein Companies can set up a multi-level approval paradigm to ensure that the sick leave policy is rightfully implemented. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate the leave and attendance management process in your organization. Conclusion A sick leave policy is not just a formal requirement but a mechanism to create a healthy work environment for workers and foster positive employer-employee relationships. A company must maintain and implement a sick days policy to provide workers with a clear idea of the company’s sick leave policy and procedure and stay compliant with the law. This sick leave policy guide will guide you through creating a comprehensive policy for your organization in compliance with the law. FAQs 1. How does paid sick leave benefit an organization? Providing sick leave is beneficial from an organization’s point of view as it reduces the spread of disease at the workplace or in the community. As well as, it increases employee productivity and improves employee retention in the organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Mar 31, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Mar 31, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Mar 31, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Mar 31, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Mar 31, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Why Time and Attendance Software is Essential for Janitorial and Cleaning Companies? 13 Different Types of Leaves Employees Working in Indian Companies Can Avail New York State Paid Time Off Laws: A Comprehensive Guide to New York Paid Time Off Laws Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form