Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Overtime Management »  					Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? Why and How To Reduce Overtime In The Manufacturing Industry? July 23, 2024 The manufacturing industry is one of the largest employers in India. More than 22 million workers are employed by manufacturing businesses . With such a large workforce, delegating work and keeping operations smooth would be easier. But, the manufacturing sector in the country suffers due to overtime issues . Overtime in the manufacturing industry is a problem for companies and workers. Once overtime was seen as a way to improve productivity, but now it is considered one of the most significant stress sources that lead to poor work-life balance. T his article will discuss how to reduce overtime in manufacturing without affecting output. We will list some strategies to overcome the issue. But first, let’s find out why overtime can be counterproductive. Table of Contents Why should organizations try to reduce overtime? 1. Financial Impact 2. Impact on performance 3. Precursor of health problems 6 Ways to reduce overtime in the manufacturing industry 1. Make sure your team has the right tool, equipment, and resources to complete the work on time 2. Create an overtime policy 3. Cross-train your employees 4. Allow flexible work schedules 5. Allow overtime only when required 6. Schedule shifts Conclusion Why should organizations try to reduce overtime? Overtime is the number of hours employees work that exceed their regular hours. Companies and HR managers often overlook the dangers of overtime. But, when observed closely, it is startling how costly overtime issues can be. Not only can it adversely affect the company’s bottom line, but it can have side effects on the workers. 1. Financial Impact The financial burden for the company to compensate overtime can be a significant undertaking. According to the labor laws in the country, employees must be remunerated at twice the rate of their regular working hours. While some employees might need to work overtime for extra income, others use overtime rates to work unnecessarily to be compensated above their average wage rate. For a company paying employees overtime rates for work that can be accommodated during the regular shift hour is a pitfall that can profoundly affect its bottom line. 2. Impact on performance A more visceral effect of overtime on workers is the reduced performance. In this whitepaper , J. Nevison clearly illustrates that over time can negatively affect performance. He suggests that there is little productive work done when workers need to work over and above 50 hours per week. Two other supporting studies found the whitepaper valid and showed that workforce productivity drops by an additional 10 hours with an increase of 4 to 12 hours in their work shifts. Overworked employees are less focused on their jobs and feel alienated in the workplace. It also has an impact on their morale making them more susceptible to performance issues . Companies must be aware of the financial liability of such a decline in productivity. 3. Precursor of health problems While financial and productivity impacts can be managed, the harmful effects of overtime on workers’ health are even more severe. Countless studies link overtime or overwork to health issues. It leads to poor work-life balance that also affects personal relationships. According to one study, workers who worked three or more hours longer than the usual shift (7 hours a day) are at a 60% higher risk of heart and cardiovascular health issues . Other health issues are associated with overtime, such as high blood pressure, increased stress, anxiety, lower back problems, alcoholism, and addiction issues. All these issues bring productivity lapses in the workforce, leading to higher absenteeism rates. 6 Ways to reduce overtime in the manufacturing industry When you identify the causes of overtime in your company, it is essential to resolve them as soon as possible. Furthermore, if your company doesn’t experience regular overtime hours, you should still have measures to avoid overtime. Here are some ways using which manufacturing companies can reduce overtime. 1. Make sure your team has the right tool, equipment, and resources to complete the work on time To reduce overtime, you have to make all the right tools and resources available that allow the most efficient use of employee hours. Allow workers to work smarter, not longer. There are a lot many manual and administrative tasks that can be automated to free human resources. People working behind the desk often spend more than one-fourth of their day reading and responding to emails alone . How can you expect to reduce overtime if the monotonous, day-to-day task consumes a quarter of workers’ shift time? It is why it is necessary to automate such tasks to allow workers to focus on more productive tasks that add value to the company and boost productivity. You can use tools like Asana and Jira for project planning and team collaboration. Manual attendance keeping and leave management is one task that takes much time for the HR team to manage. With the availability of attendance systems like Truein, recording and managing attendance can be automated . It has several benefits for both employees and HR managers. Truein integrates with payroll software, so it is easy to track attendance and overtime to pay only for the hours a worker worked. As an automated face-recognition system , workers cannot trick Truein with time theft . These are little adjustments at the outset but can go a long way to reduce overtime. When you free up human resources, they invest most of their time on actual responsibilities. 2. Create an overtime policy Just verbal overtime instructions will not help curb overtime. It would be best if you had a well-thought overtime policy to communicate company expectations to the workers. An official overtime policy explains all the aspects of working overtime. It details how employees will be compensated for overtime hours. Discuss with the HR managers how to reduce overtime in manufacturing by implementing an overtime policy. When preparing the overtime policy, clarify who will approve the overtime hours, manage shifts, and how much say the employees have in the matter. F or a detailed guide on how to create an overtime policy, check out this post . Just creating an overtime policy won’t be enough; you must ensure that all employees and managers have access to the overtime policy. Truein can help with it as well. HR managers can create and implement overtime policy from the dashboard, and employees can access the procedure on their smartphones. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can help you to automate the attendance capturing and overtime calculation in your manufacturing industry. An official overtime policy leaves little scope for misunderstanding and lays strict ground rules for employees. It ensures workers are not exploiting overtime. 3. Cross-train your employees In the manufacturing industry , it is possible to cross-train employees. For instance, having all the floor workers trained in handling CNC machines can save you money. Rather than scheduling overtime or hiring additional staff, you can pull workers from other departments to work on CNC machines during busy periods. Cross-training employees can significantly benefit your company’s bottom line. It helps make schedules much more efficient and ensures workers are not working excessive overtime. You have to ensure there is no staff shortage in a department; if there is, cross-train other workers to pick up the slack instead of staff working overtime. 4. Allow flexible work schedules It is a myth that the 9-5 work hours are the best for productivity. Many workers report that working from home is more productive than working in an office. For the manufacturing industry, it is a challenge as most of the workforce needs to be present on-site to keep the production optimal. While the administrative staff, to an extent, can be allowed to work from home, most of the workers need to be present in the office. You can have more flexible work schedules for workers to enable them to work shifts that are adjusted to the most productive hours. Employees with flexible schedules can focus more, improving their productivity and reducing the chances of overtime. 5. Allow overtime only when required While there are rules on how workers must get compensation for the overtime hours, there is no cap on how many hours employees can work for overtime. You must have policies that explicitly explain how many hours an employee can work overtime. As an employer, you have the authority to set overtime rules freely. It would help if you allowed overtime only when it is required. Determine a weekly, monthly, or annual cap of overtime hours your business can afford. This will help you decide the scope of overtime employees can work when needed, ensuring that it does not become a norm. It will also help distribute work evenly amongst workers such that all employees have an equal chance of working overtime hours for extra pay. 6. Schedule shifts Employee shift scheduling must help to reduce overtime, not increase it. It is essential to ensure that your HR team is preparing employee schedules that are organized, managed, and updated regularly. It will allow your organization to accurately match staffing levels to the work demand and eliminate any requirement for overtime. Truein can help you organize staff according to the need to distribute work and make schedules that accommodate work demands without overtime. If your company still relies on manual sheets or Excel to manage shifts and overtime, you will benefit by switching to Truein, which completely automates scheduling and attendance management. It allows managers and supervisors to keep track of employees to ensure they are working their shifts. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Overtime can be one of the biggest profit-killers for a manufacturing company. It is essential to reduce overtime to remain profitable and avoid adverse effects on employees’ health and productivity. We hope this article will provide you with all the insights you need on reducing overtime in manufacturing. T ruein has been helping some of the biggest manufacturing companies in the country reduce unnecessary overtime. Our comprehensive time and attendance management system also offers employee scheduling and overtime tracking features. With Truein’s time and attendance software for manufacturing , you can refine your company’s scheduling process and optimize the workforce for maximum productivity without overtime. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Reduce Labor Costs In Manufacturing Industry How To Reduce Absenteeism In Manufacturing Industry? 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? What Is Sandwich Leave Policy and How Does It Work? July 23, 2024 Within an organization, there are several provisions for leave management. How a company deals with leave applications depends on its business model, but there are some specific regulations around the subject. The sandwich leave policy is one such provision that creates confusion for workers. Some companies use this policy while others don’t. There are no specific legal restrictions or conditions around the policy, and companies can implement it as long as employee discussions follow. Here we explore the sandwich leave policy and its implications for employees and employers. Table of Contents What is a sandwich leave policy? What is the sandwich policy rule as per the Labour Law? What are the advantages and disadvantages of creating a sandwich leave policy? How Vacation Tracker can help Conclusion What is a sandwich leave policy? Suppose there is a public holiday falling on Friday. You apply for leave on Thursday to get a mini-vacation of four days, including the weekends, at the cost of just one leave from your yearly quota. However, they revert to your leave mail and ask you to agree that all four days of leave will be removed from your annual leave quota. What just happened? Your leaves have been sandwiched. Here your company is following the sandwich leave policy that allows HR managers to deduct the entire duration of time-off, i.e., the leaves are taken around public holidays such as national holidays and weekends. The sandwich leave policy was introduced for factory workers where productivity and output greatly depend on the workforce. Companies can implement this policy whether the employees like it or not, as there is no provision against it. Let’s see how the labor law attends to this provision for a better understanding. What is the sandwich policy rule as per the Labour Law? The sandwich policy is free of any legal restrictions and provisions in India and several other parts of the world. Globally though labour laws & policies may differ from state to state. Therefore it is best to understand the laws of the state under whose jurisdiction your company comes under while formulating sandwich leave policies. Companies usually use the policy to deter long time offs and prevent employee absenteeism . A company can use a sandwich leave policy after discussing the terms with the employee. If there is no mention of the policy in the employment contract and your company still enforces it, you can talk to the HR department regarding the same. However, if the sandwich leave policy is mentioned in the employment contract, the company can club the time-off and public holidays as per the policy. As per the Labour Law in the country, adult workers are entitled to two days of paid leave for every twenty days worked. Thus, in a year, a worker can take 15 days of paid leaves as per the law, provided they worked consistently without absenteeism. Here’s what the provision of Labour Law states about the leave entitlement for workers: Type of Leave Privileged Leave/ Earned Leave Casual Leave Quantum per year 30 days after 12 months of continuous employment 14 days Entitlement 5 leaves after 3 months of employment completing 60 days of work in that period Once a year Accumulation 90 days of paid leave in 3 years Not allowed What are the advantages and disadvantages of creating a sandwich leave policy? If a company feels that the employees are exploiting the leave policy by clubbing regular working days with public holidays, then a sandwich leave policy can help curb the practice. Another benefit of the policy is that it can prevent high absenteeism around the holiday season. If many workers take leave around the same time, production at the company will be affected. This can have a severe impact on revenue and profitability. Companies with global customers can use a sandwich leave policy to ensure customer services are not affected. When employees and customers are in different geographies, time management is of the essence. This leave policy can ensure continuous customer satisfaction. When not appropriately utilized, the sandwich leave policy can create a severe distrust between the employer and employees. It is the responsibility of the employers to inform workers about the approach to ensure there are no unpleasant surprises. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How Vacation Tracker can help For HR managers, leave management can be a herculean task without tools to aid them. Truein is an end-to-end leave and attendance management system that operates efficiently at scale. With Truein, you can create multiple leave management rules, including the sandwich leave policy. HR managers can automate the flow between attendance, leaves, and payroll with Truein, saving resources that can be invested in boosting the organization’s overall productivity. Setting up Sandwich policy on Truein is easy. You can apply sandwich rule by enabling the policy “Apply sandwich rule” directly from the Web Dashboard. Here is the process. Go to Leaves. Setup Leaves > Manage Leave Policies > Add/Edit policy and scroll down to enable “Apply sandwich rule” policy. It’s that easy. Setup Leaves > Manage Leave Policies Add/Edit policy Enable/disable apply sandwich rule Other features include attendance and leave policy management, set alerts, automatically creating attendance reports, and many more. To see the sandwich policy at work, sign up for a free demo here . Conclusion Leave management is essential to ensure a friendly work environment. The sandwich leave policy must be carefully implemented. As an HR manager, you must provide a well-structured leave policy. Help employees understand their leave entitlements and policies around the same. When workers know the company’s policies, they can avail of leaves effectively without affecting productivity and revenue. Other features include attendance and leave policy management, set alerts, automatically creating attendance reports, and many more. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs What Is On-Demand Pay and How Does It Work? What Is Geofencing and How Does It Work? Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					How To Create An Employee Monthly Attendance Report? How To Create An Employee Monthly Attendance Report? July 23, 2024 For any business, the most valuable resource is its workforce. As an HR manager, your role is to manage the employees in the best possible manner. An essential aspect of employee management is attendance keeping. It entails more than just recording the clock in and out. With proper attendance management, companies can boost productivity and profit while increasing the turnover rate. The employee monthly attendance report is a tool that can help you avoid attendance management errors and ensure that the organization is compliant with all labor laws and regulations. A monthly attendance report is also an effective way to ensure that all employees are paid accurately and on time. In this article, we will explain how to create an employee attendance report and how it will benefit the company and the workforce. Table of Contents What is an employee monthly attendance report? How to create a monthly attendance report? Vital information to be included: How can an employee's monthly attendance report help manage attendance more efficiently? 1. Helps with shift management 2. Identify attendance issues before they impact productivity 3. Ensures accurate compensation What are the disadvantages of tracking attendance manually? Truein – An Alternative to Manual Attendance Reports Conclusion What is an employee monthly attendance report? The employee monthly attendance report helps you to keep track of employee attendance by month. It is an effective way of recording employee attendance information and reporting it to the management to assist in decision-making. Automatic attendance systems like Truein can auto-generate monthly attendance reports, but HR managers can manually prepare the report using Excel or Google Sheets. If you are not aware of how to create attendance reports, then we can help. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account How to create a monthly attendance report? A comprehensive monthly attendance report keeps track of all the essential information regarding employee attendance – time in and time out, personal leaves, sick leaves , location, and days on which an employee did not show up or give prior notice. All this information is recorded every month and is a great way to track the attendance performance of individual employees and teams. If you want to prepare a manual employee monthly attendance report, Excel or Google Sheets must be the tool of choice. We are about to explain how you can create an actionable attendance monthly report with Google sheets. Vital information to be included: The first column of the report must have the month as the heading. This column will specify the essential information for each employee, i.e., name, position, and department. There will be additional 31 columns representing each day of the month. You will create various labels to visually mark the attendance status of each employee in the cells. For instance, the S label can denote sick leave, P for personal leave, and so on. Below each employee row, add another row to represent their attendance statistics, such as total attended days, sick leaves, announced leaves, etc. When you put the label in a cell, you can create counters to calculate the statistics to fill the data in this row. A t the end of the employee monthly attendance report, create two columns, one for notes and the other for monthly statistics for the combined attendance report for all employees. To help you with the task, we have already created an employee attendance report with a counter function that you can download and use directly. You can download the monthly attendance report template here . How can an employee's monthly attendance report help manage attendance more efficiently? 1. Helps with shift management To plan shifts, you will need attendance data that informs you about each employee’s attendance. A monthly attendance report can provide you with the information in a much more manageable way. You can plan and schedule shifts based on the number of available employees and workload. 2. Identify attendance issues before they impact productivity Attendance issues like employee absenteeism , time theft , and regular late time in or time out can cost companies big money. Due to attendance issues and lost productivity, employers lose $84 billion annually . HR managers are the first line of defense to protect organizations from slumping into such productivity losses by identifying issues early on. The employee department’s monthly attendance report can help with this problem. 3. Ensures accurate compensation Payroll is a vital HR function, and the salaries must be calculated accurately by properly tracking employee time and attendance . You can ensure wages are paid accurately and on time when you have relevant employee attendance data. It is also to build trust within the organization to prevent compliance issues. What are the disadvantages of tracking attendance manually? Manual attendance reporting has its limitations. It can get tedious to maintain the employee monthly attendance report if your company employs a large number of workers. Tracking leaves, overtime, absenteeism, and other issues for a large workforce is challenging. It can lead to productivity issues and create much overhead for the HR managers. Not being able to accurately or efficiently track attendance data can lead to errors in compensation. This can adversely impact employee morale and trust. It also affects the brand image of an organization. A more efficient way to create employee monthly attendance reports is to use automated software that can easily integrate them into payroll systems. Truein – An Alternative to Manual Attendance Reports Truein is a face recognition attendance software that can record attendance for contractual, field, in-office, and distributed employees. While its attendance recording capabilities are robust, Truein also offers the ability to generate automated reports based on your organization’s attendance policies . You can also download detailed attendance report spreadsheets or integrate Truein with your existing payroll system for all your payroll needs. Schedule a free demo today and see how Truein can automate attendance tracking and get daily, bi-weekly and monthly attendance reports. Conclusion There’s a lot that goes into effective employee management. Attendance management is one of the most critical tasks for HR employees that help them meet productivity challenges and build a reliable employer brand. We hope this employee monthly attendance report-making guide will help you with attendance management. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jul 23, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jul 23, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jul 23, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jul 23, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jul 23, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Create An Effective Employee Attendance Improvement Plan? How To Create An Effective Employee Lunch Break Policy? How to Create An Employee Handbook? (A Complete Guide with Examples 2024) Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form