Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Contract Labor Time and Attendance »  					The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost The Ultimate Guide to Calculating Labor Cost May 28, 2024 For any organization, keeping the labor cost low is one of the priorities. It is how you can keep profitability high, and overtime costs low. Still, many companies keep labor costs in their reports when they analyze profit and loss. This can result in poor efficiency and overspending. The only solution to the problem is to learn how to calculate labor costs. Simple. However, calculating labor costs is not as simple as there are some factors to consider and how different types of costs involved. This blog covers everything you need to know about calculating labor costs. Table of Contents Understanding labor cost Components of labor cost Benefits of calculating labor cost 1. Payroll taxes 2. Training costs 3. Labor-related expenses Calculating labor cost Factors affecting labor cost 1. Skill requirements 2. Compensation 3. Labor productivity 3. Labor laws and regulations Strategies to control labor cost 1. Workforce planning and scheduling 2. Time and attendance tracking 3. Performance management Conclusion FAQs Can I calculate labor costs based on an employee's annual salary alone? How can I reduce labor costs without compromising productivity? Are labor costs the same across all industries? Should I include training costs in labor cost calculations? How often should I recalculate labor costs? Understanding labor cost Labor cost refers to the total expenditure incurred by a business in employing and compensating its workforce. It’s not just about the wages or salaries paid to the workers but also includes all the related costs, such as social security and Medicare taxes, that employers are mandated to pay. Understanding labor cost is essential because it is a significant component of your organization’s overall expenses and is crucial in determining profitability and budgeting. To ensure that unmanaged labor cost is not impacting your bottom line, you must compare them to your revenue to ensure business growth. Components of labor cost To truly understand how to calculate labor cost, it’s necessary to know the components of labor cost. These components together affect the overall expenditure on the workforce and include: Base salaries or wages It is the regular agreed-upon amount paid to the employees or hourly wages regularly. The job position, skills, and experience determine the base salary. Overtime wages Overtime pay is one of the most significant components of labor costs and is usually 1.5 or 2 times the regular pay. Bonuses These are additional employee payments for performance, meeting targets, or achieving specific goals. Benefits of calculating labor cost The costs associated with offering work benefits such as health insurance paid time off, and retirement contributions. 1. Payroll taxes Employers also pay taxes based on employees’ wages, such as federal, state, and local taxes, social security contributions, and Medicare taxes. 2. Training costs Some organizations have training and development programs that incur costs for skill development programs, workshops, and seminars. 3. Labor-related expenses Uniforms, tools, equipment, and other items necessary for workers to work more productively are miscellaneous costs. Calculating labor cost You must know all the components listed above to calculate the labor cost. Once you have those values, it’s a simple calculation. Here’s how to calculate the labor cost per hour: Labor cost per hour = (gross pay + all annual costs) / actual worked hours per year A non-exempt worker gets paid $15 per hour; how will you calculate their labor cost? First, we calculate their gross pay. It is calculated as Gross pay = gross hourly rate x number of hours worked during the pay period For a worker, the total number of hours per year will be calculated as follows: The total number of hours per year = 40 hours per week (assuming they worked minimum hours) x 52 weeks = 2080 hours Therefore, the gross payment will be: $15 x 2080 hours = $ 31200. Hourly labor cost You must know how to calculate labor cost per hour for hourly workers. In our example, the hourly wage is $15. But we want to calculate the total hourly cost per hour. Here’s the formula to do it: Hourly labor cost = annual payroll cost / actual hours worked First, we need to find the actual hours worked. For that, we will use this formula: Actual worked hours = total number of hours per year – hours not worked Suppose the employee worked for less than 10 days in the year. So, their actual worked hours will be = 2080 hours – (10 x 8)hours = 2000 hours. Next, the annual payroll cost = gross pay + other annual costs. In our example, all other costs, such as benefits and overtime, are $1500. So, the annual payroll cost = $ 31200 + $1500 = $ 32700. Finally, hourly labor cost = $32700/2000 hours = $16.35. Factors affecting labor cost Given several components of labor costs it is evident that it is affected by various factors. You must know these factors to manage labor cost and bring it down effectively. 1. Skill requirements Different industries have varying labor cost structures, mainly based on the supply and demand of skilled workers. You can expect higher labor costs if there is a shortage of skilled labor. 2. Compensation The level of employee compensation you offer, including wages, salaries, and benefits, directly affects labor costs. While you can control the several compensation benefits you offer, such as merit increases, performance-based bonuses, and health insurance contributions, you still need these costs to attract the right employees. It’s a balancing act that managers have to master. 3. Labor productivity If the workers spend hours at the job but are not productive, it will be negative labor costs as you are not generating revenue from the salaries paid. This is why you must focus on efficient and productive employees who can generate higher output with the same labor hours, thus reducing labor costs. 3. Labor laws and regulations Labor laws and regulations also decide your labor cost, as you must abide by minimum wage and overtime regulations. Compliance with these labor laws and regulations results in additional costs for employers. Strategies to control labor cost We study labor costs to ensure that labor costs do not adversely affect our profit margins. We also want to offer appropriate compensation to workers to keep them engaged and motivated. Here are some strategies that organizations can implement for managing and controlling labor costs effectively. 1. Workforce planning and scheduling How can you expect to calculate labor costs correctly if you are not planning and scheduling your workforce? The process is necessary to ensure that the labor resources align with the production demands. Workforce planning and scheduling can help accurately forecast staffing needs based on historical data, seasonality, and business trends. It avoids overstaffing or understaffing, reducing unnecessary labor costs. 2. Time and attendance tracking A reliable time and attendance tracking system , such as Truein, can help accurately measure employee work hours. Truein is an AI-powered face recognition time and attendance system that offers robust s hift scheduling and leave management capabilities. Its GPS-enabled tracking option ensures there is no time theft . It easily integrates with payroll and HR software to calculate wages accurately and control overtime costs. Its real-time tracking and auto-scheduling features can also enable proactive adjustments to schedules and staffing as needed. 3. Performance management Companies should focus on performance management and productivity improvement initiatives. It will help optimize labor utilization. You should set clear performance goals, and managers and supervisors should provide regular feedback to workers so they can proactively improve their productivity and efficiency, reducing wasted time and increasing output. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Understanding labor cost is essential to make informed financial decisions regarding productivity and revenue optimization. Knowledge of labor cost components empowers you to calculate labor costs accurately. Consider the factors affecting your business’s labor cost and implement appropriate strategies to control costs. FAQs Can I calculate labor costs based on an employee's annual salary alone? No, labor cost is not based solely on an employee’s annual salary but includes various components such as bonuses, overtime pay, payroll taxes, and benefits. How can I reduce labor costs without compromising productivity? You can use workforce planning and scheduling to anticipate the supply and demand of the workforce, implement time and attendance tracking with reliable tools like Truein for accurate work hours calculations, and improve employee training and development. Are labor costs the same across all industries? Labor costs vary significantly across industries due to skill requirements, labor market dynamics, and industry-specific regulations. Should I include training costs in labor cost calculations? If the training costs directly impact the employees’ learning and development within their roles, they can be included in labor costs. If not, then it is a more general or unrelated cost. How often should I recalculate labor costs? The frequency of recalculating labor costs depends on the nature of your business needs. However, you should review and recalculate labor costs regularly, such as monthly, to ensure that labor costs remain accurate and up-to-date. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs How To Calculate Labor Cost In Manufacturing? 4 Ways To Reduce Labor Cost In Construction Industry Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Human Resource Management »  					Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure Salary vs. Hourly Pay: Decoding the Pay Structure May 28, 2024 Hiring a staff is a combined decision covering everything from their roles and responsibilities to the benefits offered. A decision that significantly impacts you as an employer is how you pay them – salary or hourly. The salary vs. hourly pay determines who you attract for the role and the long-term financial impact of hiring the staff for your business. In simplest terms, a salaried staff receives regular paychecks irrespective if they work long on busy days or less on some days. On the contrary, hourly wages are paid to workers according to their work hours. They may be eligible for overtime if they work beyond the 40-hour workweek. But the difference between salary and hourly pay systems is much more significant, which we’ll explain in this guide. We will explore the pros and cons of each to help you determine which is best for your business. Table of Contents Understanding salary and hourly pay Benefits of salary pay Disadvantages of salary pay Pros and cons of hourly pay Advantages of hourly pay Disadvantages of hourly pay Factors to consider when choosing pay structure 1. Position type 2. Work hours 3. Productivity measure How can Truein help? Conclusion Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Can a salaried staff work fewer than 40 hours a week? 2.Do hourly workers get paid for holidays? 3. Are salary positions more prestigious than hourly positions? 4. Can an hourly staff become salaried? 5. Which pay structure offers better benefits? Understanding salary and hourly pay Apart from the security of steady paychecks, salaried staff have other benefits and earn more than hourly workers. You must provide benefits like bonuses and paid vacation time to a salaried worker. There is no such obligation for hourly staff, but some are eligible for overtime. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), an hourly staff can be classified as “exempt” or “non-exempt” depending on their eligibility to work overtime. Hourly workers eligible for overtime are non-exempt, while ineligible ones are exempt. FLSA regulations regarding minimum wage and overtime compensation protect the “non-exempt” hourly workers. They are entitled to 1.5 times the hourly pay per hour they work over the standard 40-hour workweek. The U.S. Department of Labor’s Wage and Hour Division has clear guidelines regarding which staff can be considered “exempt.” They must satisfy the following requirements: Earning at least $684 per week Working in an administrative, computer, executive, professional, or external sales position Have the authority to make significant decisions independently Ability to create and implement company policies Must be working in a management role Before you decide how you will pay the new staff, it’s essential to consider hourly vs. salary pros and cons. Understanding the different benefits of each compensation is essential to know if hourly or salary is better for your business. Let’s explore a few benefits and downsides of salary and hourly pay. Benefits of salary pay Full-time, salaried staff typically get additional perks like health care, 401(k), and paid vacation time. This allows you to attract better people for work. Salaried staff are expected to receive the set amount consistently every month or year. A steady payroll simplifies accounting, and there are fewer mistakes. Salaried workers can be given more responsibilities, and you won’t have to pay wages for extra work on busy days. Also, such staff have better career prospects than hourly staff as they have more long-term promotion opportunities. Disadvantages of salary pay You must pay the staff a set amount, even if their clock hours are less. This limits you from adjusting costs if your revenue fluctuates during slow seasons. It is legally required to pay at least $684 per week to salaried workers. It is higher than what you would generally pay an hourly worker for 40 hours at minimum wage Pros and cons of hourly pay In some cases, your business can benefit from hiring hourly staff. For instance, you can add extra workers to the workforce during the busy season by paying hourly without making any full-time commitments. Advantages of hourly pay You get the flexibility to adjust the cost of paying workers based on expected revenue by easily reducing the worker hours. Hourly workers are part-time workers who don’t need to be paid extra benefits, just overtime. Productivity can be easily measured for hourly workers by tracking their time on the job using attendance systems like Truein. Disadvantages of hourly pay Payroll management is challenging if the schedule varies. It will require hourly workers to get paid different amounts. Hourly pay is usually higher than salary pay. Also, the overtime wage is higher. Hiring senior staff on hourly pay is challenging as they seek more stability and benefits. Factors to consider when choosing pay structure Most organizations choose to hire a mix of salaried and hourly workers for optimum workforce cost and productivity. There are several factors to consider when deciding the compensation type for the staff, as discussed below. 1. Position type Salary pay is the proper compensation if you want a floor manager or supervisor with years of experience. Most senior workers seek a stable paycheck and additional benefits when applying for work. Therefore, for senior positions, it is recommended compensation type. 2. Work hours Hiring hourly workers can result in significant cost savings if your business has fluctuating schedules, with some periods requiring more work. Hourly workers are part-time workers who are not expected to receive insurance and 401(k) benefits. 3. Productivity measure Is hourly or salary better for your business depends on how you measure your workers  productivity. For instance, a worker’s presence at the site directly impacts output and revenue if you are in a service industry like construction or mining. Here, hourly pay is ideal. By contrast, if productivity depends on outcomes or deliverables rather than time spent at work, such as for project managers, staff seek full-time employment with steady paychecks and benefits. How can Truein help? Whether you offer a salary or hourly pay, you need a tool for efficient time and attendance tracking . Truein is a complete solution for managing time and attendance for your staff . With its inbuilt policy templates, you can easily follow federal guidelines for salaried and hourly workers if you have a mixed workforce. It is a contactless face recognition attendance system that can be deployed on workers’ phones for attendance clock in and position tracking. There’s much on offer, including multi-site deployment, payroll-ready reports, 70+ customizable policies, and more. Learn more about Truein’s full features here . “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Conclusion Paying a worker with a salary vs. hourly pay is not just about money. While cost is a substantial factor, it’s also essential to consider the role requirements and how productivity correlates to time spent on the job before making the decision. The difference between salary and hourly compensation, as discussed, provides a clear view of the pros and cons of each compensation type. Depending on the factors critical for your business, make the final choice. Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) 1. Can a salaried staff work fewer than 40 hours a week? Yes, a salaried staff can work fewer than 40 hours a week. Salaried workers are expected to fulfill their job responsibilities in most industries regardless of the number of hours worked. Hence, they can work less or more than 40 hours a week without pay change. 2.Do hourly workers get paid for holidays? In the U.S., paying hourly workers for holidays is not mandatory. It entirely depends on the employment contracts and company policies. 3. Are salary positions more prestigious than hourly positions? While prestige associated with a position is subjective, salaried positions tend to attract more senior workers. The higher-level roles and management positions mostly do have salary compensation. 4. Can an hourly staff become salaried? Several companies allow an hourly worker to transition to a salaried position. The transition usually occurs when an hourly worker performs excellently or takes on additional job responsibilities. 5. Which pay structure offers better benefits? Salary pay offers more comprehensive benefits like retirement contributions, healthcare coverage, and paid vacations. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Hourly Employee Laws: Everything You Need To Know About Hourly Employee Laws Holiday Pay Calculator: How To Calculate Holiday Pay For Hourly Employees? Time and A Half Calculator: Calculating Overtime & Holiday Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form