Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Biometric Time and Attendance »  					Electronic Attendance System vs Hardware less Attendance System Electronic Attendance System vs Hardware less Attendance System June 25, 2024 All businesses have a requirement to record attendance to keep the track of workers. An attendance system helps recognize which workers are arriving late and how much to pay them. The traditional method of taking attendance involves old-fashioned punch clocks, attendance sheets, or some other kind of manual system that require human supervision. However, electronic attendance systems are also known as e-attendance systems and they are completely autonomous and require no human oversight. Hardware-less attendance systems are the latest innovation in the industry that is also autonomous and doesn’t require any complicated hardware deployment at the site to mark attendance such as a mobile-based attendance system . In this article, we are about to compare electronic attendance with hardware-less attendance systems to determine which one is best suited for your business needs. Table of Contents What is an electronic attendance system? Types of electronic time and attendance system 1. Biometric attendance system 2. Time Card 3. Proximity Cards, Badges, and Key Fobs 4. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) 5. Web-based Login Stations Advantages of electronic attendance system 1. High Accuracy 2. Simplifies Payroll 3. Integration / Configuration 4. Security 5. Productivity / Efficiency Why pick electronic attendance systems over manual systems? Drawbacks of electronic systems compared to hardware-less attendance systems Do you need a hardware-less attendance system? Why choose the Truein attendance system What is an electronic attendance system? An electronic attendance system has electronic components that are managed by software to take attendance. These systems are popularly known as automated attendance systems as they require minimal human supervision to function. Depending on their operation, time and attendance systems can be of various types. Types of electronic time and attendance system 1. Biometric attendance system The most popular electronic attendance system is biometric. These systems are designed to identify unique physical traits of a person such as a fingerprint, handprint, retina, or face to record attendance. 2. Time Card A time card attendance system is comparatively less expensive than other electronic attendance solutions. Their operation is simple, each employee receives a time card that they swipe on the machine. Every time a card is swiped, the data is collected and automatically transferred to a timesheet, eliminating any manual paperwork. The major drawback of this electronic time attendance system is buddy punching . 3. Proximity Cards, Badges, and Key Fobs A more proficient upgrade to the time card system, these types of attendance systems work on geofencing or GPS technology. The employees only pass the proximity card, page, or key fob in front of the reader to mark the attendance. These systems can also be customized to track employee movements throughout the facility. 4. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) The IVR attendance system allows employees working in the field or at remote locations to clock in by calling in over a landline or cell phone. 5. Web-based Login Stations Most IT businesses where employees work from laptops or personal computers employ Web-based login stations. These systems set up a static IP address every time an employee logs into the computer. Advantages of electronic attendance system 1. High Accuracy The systems designed for electronic attendance are highly accurate. As these systems are entirely automated there is no scope for human error. On top of that, an electronic attendance system can keep track of any number of employees simultaneously, making the process highly efficient. 2. Simplifies Payroll Let’s face it, tracking employee hours, verifying and collating payroll is a laborious and time-consuming task. Thankfully, an electronic attendance machine can simplify this process by automating the entire workflow of attendance keeping and the payroll process. 3. Integration / Configuration An electronic attendance system can be customized to suit your needs based on the nature of work and policies. Most of these systems are designed to integrate with some of the most popular payroll software and services like Tally ERP and QuickBooks Intuit. 4. Security Most electronic attendance management systems are built for security. These systems have highly secure architecture, especially biometric systems. The organizations where security is a primary concern can trust electronic attendance systems. 5. Productivity / Efficiency Such attendance systems can free up precious administration time that is otherwise spent on keeping track of employees and managing the payroll system. The saved time and effort when combined with data accuracy improves productivity and hence the profits. Why pick electronic attendance systems over manual systems? An electronic attendance system is far superior to any manual system. These systems are much more accurate, require no human oversight, easily integrate with existing payroll software, and cannot be fooled easily. In a world where modern technologies are making it cost-effective to deploy smart business management solutions, if you are still stuck with a manual attendance system, you are losing revenue and may also be paying for the hours your employees never worked. That being said, there are some aspects where electronic systems lack. Drawbacks of electronic systems compared to hardware-less attendance systems An electronic time attendance system is not always a viable option. For instance, these systems have limited scope for businesses where employees are scattered over a large geographical area. Hardware-less systems are more reliable in such a scenario as workers can clock in using their mobile phones. Dependency on hardware sensors limits the efficiency of electronic systems in industries with a blue-collar workforce like mining and forging companies. Fingerprint systems are not as efficient here as workers’ fingers are often covered in dirt. For such a working environment, hardware-less systems like facial recognition are more efficient. Post pandemic work culture is shifting towards minimizing physical contact for the safety of employees, making hardware-less attendance systems more viable. Furthermore, electronic systems have higher maintenance cost due to hardware components. They also require more space for installation. Do you need a hardware-less attendance system? Yes, you do. Irrespective of what type of your business is, a hardware-less system is a worthwhile investment. It can perform all the functions an electronic attendance system can, but is far more cost-effective. Truein is one such attendance system that is designed for employees, contractual and distributed workforce. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Why choose the Truein attendance system Truein is an ideal hardware-less attendance system that is trusted by some of the biggest organizations. A touchless face recognition attendance system , Truein is designed to automate attendance policies and reports for your business. Automate attendance policies You can view the full image here . Employee attendance reports You can view the full image here . A major upgrade Truein provides over other hardware-less attendance systems is the capability to recognize a face with a mask on. The AI-powered face recognition system can detect a person accurately even with a mask on or any facial attribute change such as beard or glasses. There is a minimal cost of deploying this attendance system for your business. Employees can use their mobile or tablet to configure Truein’s app to mark their attendance. There’s more, Truein automates payroll, leave management , shift rostering , and integration with third-party software. Schedule a free demo and see how Truein can intelligently handle all your business’ attendance and employee management needs. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? Jun 25, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? Jun 25, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries Jun 25, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? Jun 25, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview Jun 25, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 8 Disadvantages of Fingerprint Attendance System A Comprehensive Guide to Attendance Management System 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice collinbluedigits-in Blogs » Attendance Policy »  					Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? Employee Overtime Policy: How to Draft A Strategic and Encouraging Policy? May 20, 2024 Some of the world’s most successful companies have favorable employee policies. Among these rules, the overtime policy is a crucial aspect. Surprisingly, many employers are oblivious to employee rights and labor laws governing the overtime policy. Most common is the private sector, employees often work overtime past their working hours to achieve the company’s target and increase productivity. As a competitive corporate and business environment demands hard work from the workforce, companies must not overlook the need for a well-structured overtime policy. Table of Contents Understanding the overtime hours Why does your company need an overtime policy? How to draft an overtime policy? 1. Who are exempt employees are and who are non-exempt employees? 2. What are the essential working hours? 3. Whether overtime is optional, mandatory, or prohibited 4. What are the overtime limitations, if any? 5. Procedures to follow for working overtime 6. How much is the overtime pay? 7. How is overtime paid? 8. Disclaimer specific to the company, outside the applicable labor laws Accurate overtime tracking is a must Benefits of tracking overtime hours for employers Benefits of tracking overtime hours for employees Automate Overtime Tracking with Truein Bottomline Understanding the overtime hours Overtime is the period for which employees work after their regular working hours. In India , legally, an employee can be subject to 8-9 working hours a day, that’s 48-50 hours a week. As per the overtime policy in India, any employee working for more than the established working hours must receive the remuneration for the period worked beyond the mandatory working hours. Companies must have an overtime policy in place to set ground rules. Why does your company need an overtime policy? As part of employee-friendly work culture, companies must clearly define the overtime policy and procedure to help employees know whether working overtime is optional, mandatory, limited, or prohibited. It would help if you outlined the policies to address how you handle overtime hours. In India, the remuneration for overtime hours is 200% (twice the regular hourly rate), implying high costs. For full-time and contract workers, overtime policy differs. Usually, contract workers are not paid overtime. An overtime policy is essential to address how the company handles overtime hours for exempt and nonexempt employees. How to draft an overtime policy? Your employees must be aware of the overtime management policy at the company. It will provide them with all the essential reference points if they have any questions about the company’s overtime procedures or management policies. The overtime policy must clearly explain the employee overtime rules and procedures. There should be no ambiguity in the terms and conditions. Any comprehensive overtime policy must have the following information: 1. Who are exempt employees are and who are non-exempt employees? Exempt employees are those who do not receive overtime pay, nor do they qualify for minimum wage. Exempt primarily means employees who are exempt from receiving overtime pay. Nonexempt employees are entitled to receive federal minimum wage and qualify for overtime. 2. What are the essential working hours? In principle, essential working hours must not exceed 40 hours per week or eight hours per day , excluding breaks for US employees. As per the UAE Labour Law , private sector working hours are 8 hours per day or 48 hours per week and according to the Factories Act 1948 , in India employees cannot work for 48 hours a week or nine hours per day. The Indian state of Maharashtra has amended Section 65(2) of the Factories Act 1948 . Under this amendment seeking the state’s permission before giving overtime to workers is no longer compulsory. Furthermore, the management can extend overtime hours as they deem fit. 3. Whether overtime is optional, mandatory, or prohibited You can make overtime mandatory, optional, or ban it entirely, depending on your business. If your company has hectic weeks when the demand to deliver is high, you can set up weeks with mandatory overtime hours. Some businesses do not need employees working overtime, but they don’t ban it and make it optional. In some scenarios, overtime costs can be too high, prompting employers to prohibit it. 4. What are the overtime limitations, if any? Altogether banning employees from working overtime can be counterproductive. To reduce cost, you can put limitations. For example, you can specify how many hours an employee can work overtime a week. It will help you control the cost. 5. Procedures to follow for working overtime Do employees need permission to work overtime? If so, how can they request to work overtime? How can employees report overtime? These are some examples of procedures to include in your overtime policy draft. 6. How much is the overtime pay? While overtime pay is generally 1.5-2x times an employee’s normal salary per hour, you can also choose to reward salaried employees working extra hours with additional perks. 7. How is overtime paid? Will the overtime pay be included in regular wages, or will the company run a separate payroll for overtime hours? It must be answered in the policy. 8. Disclaimer specific to the company, outside the applicable labor laws Depending on the type of industry, companies can have specific disclaimers on how they handle events during overtime hours like food privileges, traveling allowance, etc. These are the general guidelines to help you draft an overtime policy for a company. A viable employee overtime policy must include all the elements listed above and applicable rules and procedures depending on the industry and the local law. Accurate overtime tracking is a must Tracking overtime hours is not only a legal requirement, but it also makes your company a better place to work. When you are tracking over time, you can better manage team resources and adjust workloads to ensure the well-being of the employees. For companies, accurate overtime tracking is the only way to compensate employees for their overtime hours. As employees and employers have rights and entitlements in the context of overtime policy and procedure, accurately tracking overtime is in the interests of both. Before the pandemic struck, an average employee worked a little over four hours of overtime , and 59% of the distributed workforce worked overtime at least a week. As the crisis unfolded, these numbers increased substantially. Recent research found that one in four public healthcare managers worked more than 20 hours overtime during the pandemic crisis. Benefits of tracking overtime hours for employers These numbers indicate that keeping track of overtime hours is more important than ever. Tracking overtime hours is mandatory for companies to ensure compliance with labor laws. Furthermore, it lets companies keep track of one of the most significant ongoing expenses. Employers must commit to maintaining overtime visible and accountable to provide compensation accordingly. For HR, tracking helps with effective resource management. Managers can better review company-wide work patterns and improvise to split work effectively between employees. It has tremendous value for the employer brand as it can prevent employee burnout, disengagement, and unhealthy workplace culture. Benefits of tracking overtime hours for employees Accurate overtime tracking ensures proper compensation. It is effective in protecting against wage theft. Furthermore, employees get paid faster as time tracking updates the payroll department about the number of overtime hours in real-time. It helps employees fight unsustainable and unfair working practices. With overtime tracking, employees become more aware of their weekly capacity. It helps them make more intelligent and more efficient decisions about using their time. Automate Overtime Tracking with Truein Truein is an advanced attendance system based on touchless face recognition technology. It is a centralized attendance management system designed for employees, contractual, and distributed workforce. The software also has overtime tracking feature. Some of the biggest brands and most prominent companies use Truein to automate time tracking and enforce overtime policy. The app can capture overtime hours in the background without any interference from the employee or employer. Truein uses AI at its core, helping companies automatically draft timesheets. Employers can set the app to track overtime accurately based on the company’s overtime policy. Truein calculates overtime based on preset inputs by the companies. It allows for rules such as what counts as overtime, when to count weekly offs, and how to calculate overtime hours based on the employee’s department. Employers and HRs can also download the monthly overtime report directly from the Truein dashboard. Sign up for a free demo and automate the overtime attendance capturing and it’s calculation at your organization. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account Bottomline A comprehensive overtime policy is in the interest of both employers and employees. Well laid out employee overtime rules and procedures help companies justify remuneration for the extra work. It also empowers employees with indisputable evidence for addressing wage theft or unsustainable working practices. Employers or employees can’t protect against abuses or inequalities without accurate overtime tracking. Truein offers the capabilities to track over time as part of its wholly automated attendance system solution. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 20, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 20, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 20, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 20, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 20, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs Time off Policy for Small Business: 6 Types & 5 Steps to Write a PTO Policy Florida Overtime Law: An In-depth Overview on Florida State Overtime Laws Missouri Overtime Law: A Complete Guide on Missouri Law on Overtime Pay Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form
Skip to content Time & Attendance for Contract and Distributed Staff Menu Close Products Face attendance Touchless face recognition attendance for your employees, contractual and distributed workforce Industry Facility Management Construction Supply Chain and Logistics Manpower and Staffing Retail Chain Manufacturing Cleaning and Janitorial Services Other Contractual Workforce Other Distributed Workforce Solutions Face Recognition Attendance Mobile based Attendance Contract Workers Attendance GPS Geofenced Attendance Time and Attendance Time Off Management Reports & Analytics Shift Scheduling Time Tracking Overtime Tracking Software Enterprise Time and Attendance Workforce Management Cloud Based Time and Attendance Job based Time Tracking Pricing Customer Stories About Us Company Technology Blog Careers About us Contact us Login Schedule a Demo Why Truein Face Attendance Testimonials Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email 500+ customers across the globe trust Truein Contract and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Enter Office email (e.g. your.name@company-name.com) Enter Mobile Number Download Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice 250+ customer across the globe trust Truein Get Your Ebook! Thank You for downloading Ebook! Your Ebook has been sent to your Email Trusted by 500+ Customers Globally Leaving Already? Don’t Miss This! Contract and Distributed Workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems!Find out how to solve them. Enter Your Name Enter Your Email Get My Free Ebook By clicking on Submit, you acknowledge having read our Privacy Notice omkarm Blogs » Time and Attendance Management »  					5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization 5 Massive Benefits of Attendance Management System & 3 Points To Consider Before Implementing It At Your Organization May 28, 2024 Practicing human resource management has evolved drastically over time. The world of business as we know it is changing as the world comes out of one of the most defining times for businesses, both small and large. The COVID-19 pandemic showed us that digital transformation is crucial to business development. Accordingly, companies are finding ways to adapt. One type of HR software that companies should start deploying as the world shifts to automated and more productive  setup is a cloud-based attendance management system. Time and attendance software is on track to becoming one of the most highly used HR management tools, poised to make up to $2.56 billion in revenues in 2024. But what are attendance management software solutions and why are they beneficial for businesses? Table of Contents Why Attendance Management Matters 5 Benefits of Attendance Management System 1. More efficiency 2. Less effort 3. More results 4. Happier staff 5. Healthier staff 3 Considerations When Choosing A Time & Attendance Management System​ 1. Automation 2. Features 3. Ease of Use HR in the Future Why Attendance Management Matters An attendance management system is software that helps track, monitor, and manage company attendance. For companies dealing with Contractual or distributed workforce, attendance management directly helps boost workforce productivity and plug attendance related leakages if any. An attendance management tool can help an HR professional or business owner do any of the following: Manage team clock in and clock out Track leaves and absences Automate shift scheduling Payroll integration Analytics and reporting Attendance compliance automation Boost workforce productivity And so many more So why would a company need an attendance management system for their team? Here are a few of the most convincing benefits of having an attendance management system for your team. 5 Benefits of Attendance Management System 1. More efficiency Having an attendance management system is efficient for both your team and your managers. Countless HR managers spend several hours a week manually creating shift rosters , tracking absences and leaves, and managing worker attendance. With attendance management solutions, you can automate and streamline activities like shift scheduling , absence tracking, and many more. Efficiency also improves for your employees as it will now become easier to apply for leaves, track their schedules, and report any attendance issues. This works for both online and offline teams as cloud-based software can also be geotagged so that team members can only clock in when they’re in the vicinity of their office or place of work. 2. Less effort With more efficiency comes lesser effort to maintain and comply with attendance management protocols. Imagine this scenario— HR people had to manually check Bundy clock punch in cards daily and then manually compute salaries. Now, with an online employee attendance app , people can clock in on the cloud, and then managers can access analytics dashboards that summarize work hours and absences so admins will have an easier time calculating salaries. Many attendance management applications integrate seamlessly with payroll software so HR departments can spend less time calculating salaries and more time disbursing them promptly. This use-case is one of the many ways team attendance tracking software helps teams. It can also lessen the effort spent creating attendance reports for evaluations, shift scheduling, leave tracking, and many other aspects of attendance monitoring. 3. More results Now that HR managers and business owners spend less time on administrative tasks related to attendance management, they can spend more time on high-level tasks that bring more results, like networking, product development, employee engagement activities, marketing, and so on. We’re coming into a time when work culture will matter more than ever before. Human resource managers will have to spend more time and energy creating ways to build a strong work culture. Reserving their time for that can now be possible if they automate other parts of their HR tasks like attendance management so they can drive needed results for the team as a whole. 4. Happier staff Higher workplace engagement brings about up to 41% less incidences of absenteeism and up to 21% more profit. So focusing on happiness in the workplace doesn’t just benefit the staff. It also benefits the company. Attendance management software can also have a direct impact on employee happiness. For one, leaves will be honored faster given that these tools automate many of the notification and approval tasks involved in leave management. When there is a single unified system, it is easy to manage massive records and there is no need for manual reconciliations. 5. Healthier staff Companies should also start viewing employee engagement as a goal and not just a means to more profit too. So healthy staff is a great goal or benefit to achieve with attendance management. Overwork is one of the leading causes of workplace burnout, a phenomenon that costs the U.S. industry alone over $300 billion annually. Businesses and managers have a responsibility of protecting their staff members’ workplace health, in both physiological and psychological terms. Attendance management is a part of that process—checking who among staff members are overworked and addressing accordingly by lessening their workload or giving them time off. 3 Considerations When Choosing A Time & Attendance Management System​ Having an online attendance management system can bring all kinds of benefits to your team. So how does one select and set up an HR software for attendance management? Here are some considerations you should have when choosing the best leave management system for your team or company. 1. Automation The first consideration to keep in mind with your time and attendance management system is the available automation it provides. You want something that has the most automation available. The goal of a software solution is to make your or your team’s lives easier. Automations can do that by removing manual tasks and setting up alerts and notifications so you and your team can take your mind off the repetitive parts of human resource management and focus more on things like: Coaching Employee evaluations Team building Team development Hiring and recruitment 2. Features The next thing you need to look out for is the features that are necessary for your context. Not all systems are built equally, and not all companies need the same kinds of features. Each HR software solution is unique and has other selling points. So you want to be sure that you’re doing all the research necessary to find out which solution fits your context best. Make a list of tasks you want to automate in attendance management systems, turn it into a checklist, and start looking for solutions that provide those features. Here’s a list of features of HR software that you can check out to build that list. Also, consider what kind of team setup you have. If you have an onsite team, for example, then you might need a biometric attendance management system. 3. Ease of Use The last consideration in choosing your attendance management system is the ease of use. Is the software easy for your managers to access and use? Moreover, is it easier for the rest of the team to use? Select a system that has a user experience that fits your team best. For teams with lesser tech-savvy members, you might want to choose an app that’s straightforward and has lesser functions. Every team will have its own set of preferences. You can also choose a solution that allows for more white labeling so that the software will match more with the company’s identity and give users a higher sense of ownership. “Get centralized and foolproof Time & Attendance for your organization” Book a Free Demo Now Start Free Trial First name Enter First Name Last name Enter Last Name Company name Enter Company Name Select Employee Size Work email Enter Work Email Address Mobile number Enter Mobile Number Create Account HR in the Future Human resource management is undoubtedly changing. So HR practitioners should start adapting to these changes and looking more frequently into automation and digital solutions. As times change, that adaptability will allow you to stay relevant, competitive, and progressive as a professional and as an organization. Recent Blogs How to Manage Shift Schedules for Electrical Contractors? May 28, 2024 How to Start an HVAC Business? May 28, 2024 Understanding the Demand for Manpower Supply in Different Industries May 28, 2024 How to Implement an Efficient Payroll System for Your Business? May 28, 2024 The Role of a Shift Leader: A Comprehensive Overview May 28, 2024 Categories Attendance Policy Biometric Time and Attendance Construction Time and Attendance Contract Labor Time and Attendance Facility Management Time and Attendance GCC Employment Laws Geofencing Time and Attendance Human Resource Management Leave and Attendance Management Logistics & Supply Chain Management Manufacturing Time and Attendance Overtime Management Payroll Management Retail Time and Attendance Shift Scheduling and Management Small Business Strategies Time and Attendance Fraud Time and Attendance Management Time and Attendance Overtime Laws Time and Attendance PTO Laws by State Truein Attendance System Features Workforce Management & Optimization Contractual and Distributed workforce Time & Attendance has these age-old problems! Find out how to solve them. Download Ebook Thank You for downloading Ebook! Related Blogs 6 Benefits of Having An Automated Leave Management System At Your Organization Types of Employment: 12 Different Types of Employment To Consider in Recruitment What to Consider When Creating a Parental Leave Policy Check out more Schedule a demo Blog Integrations Technology Careers About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Service Time and Attendance Time Off Management Biometric vs App Attendance Time Clock App for Small Business Shift Scheduling for Construction Industry Restaurant Employee Scheduling Time and Attendance for Middle East Follow us Facebook-f Twitter Linkedin Global Middle East Truein | All rights reserved © Contact us Contact us Signup for free Please fill below form