The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2021 pending customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions. UBS acted as lead financial advisor to Precisely. Goldman Sachs and Jefferies also acted as joint financial advisors to the Company. Evercore, BofA Securities, Barclays and JP Morgan acted as financial advisors to Clearlake and TA Associates. JP Morgan, BofA Securities, Barclays, Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, Jefferies and Morgan Stanley are arranging the debt financing for the acquisition. Precisely Expands Leadership Team Following Delivery of Industrys Precisely Expands Leadership Team Following Delivery of Industrys First Data Integrity Suite New CFO, CPO and CISO Bolster Leadership Team in Preparation for Accelerating Growth February 2, 2021 , the global leader in data integrity, today announced the appointments of Pat Collins, Anjan Kundavaram and Sue Bergamo to its leadership team as Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Chief Product Officer (CPO) and Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), respectively. The appointments come as the company enters a new phase of growth following delivery of the Precisely Data Integrity Suite, an industry first, which provides maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data for better, more confident business decisions. Pat Collins, CFO , joins Precisely from Dell EMC, where he served in multiple financial leadership roles over the past 20 years, including as the CFO of RSA, CFO of the storage systems division, CFO of services, and most recently CFO of North American sales. As CFO, Collins will lead the execution of core financial functions for Precisely. Anjan Kundavaram , CPO, most recently served as VP & GM at Hitachi Vantara, where he led a global team focused on delivering a portfolio of market-leading hyper-converged, Kubernetes, Observability, and Industrial IoT products and solutions. As CPO, Anjan will be responsible for driving the roadmap and delivery of Preciselys recently launched Sue Bergamo, CISO , previously served as the CIO and CISO of global digital commerce company Episerver. In the newly created CISO role at Precisely, she will be responsible for carrying out and managing the companys information security vision, strategy, and program to minimize potential security risks and further a culture of security stewardship. Precisely has expanded its leadership team at a pivotal time when the market, and general public, is yearning for data it can trust. Good and trusted data is essential for successful omnichannel experiences, predictive modelling efforts, intelligent automation programs, and artificial intelligence initiatives. These appointments will further the companys ability to help customers address the issue of bad data, helping businesses across all industries and regions achieve a foundation of data integrity upon which to build significant digital transformation initiatives. The market conditions have signaled that data integrity is a business imperative for organizations. With worldwide spending on digital transformation expected to have reached $1.3 trillion, the foundational role data has in the success of digital transformation efforts and the urgency for shoring up potential shortfalls has never been greater, said Josh Rogers, CEO of Precisely. The pandemic has only accelerated the need to digitally transform, making data integrity objectives even more important. The appointment of these three industry veterans will help elevate critical capabilities at this important moment in our companys evolution. Despite the global pandemic, 2020 was a banner year for Precisely as the company integrated the software & data business of Pitney Bowes, which it acquired (as Syncsort) for $700 million in December 2019, rebranded to Precisely to highlight its market differentiation and focus on data integrity, and delivered the industrys first Data Integrity Suite at its Data Integrity Summit in October. Precisely has expanded its leadership team at a pivotal time when the market, and general public, is yearning for data it can trust. Good and trusted data is essential for successful omnichannel experiences, predictive modelling efforts, intelligent automation programs, and artificial intelligence initiatives. These appointments will further the companys ability to help customers address the issue of bad data, helping businesses across all industries and regions achieve a foundation of data integrity upon which to build significant digital transformation initiatives. The market conditions have signaled that data integrity is a business imperative for organizations. With worldwide spending on digital transformation expected to have reached $1.3 trillion, the foundational role data has in the success of digital transformation efforts and the urgency for shoring up potential shortfalls has never been greater, said Josh Rogers, CEO of Precisely. The pandemic has only accelerated the need to digitally transform, making data integrity objectives even more important. The appointment of these three industry veterans will help elevate critical capabilities at this important moment in our companys evolution. Despite the global pandemic, 2020 was a banner year for Precisely as the company integrated the software & data business of Pitney Bowes, which it acquired (as Syncsort) for $700 million in December 2019, rebranded to Precisely to highlight its market differentiation and focus on data integrity, and delivered the industrys first Data Integrity Suite at its Data Integrity Summit in October. Precisely Enhances Confident Decision-Making with Dynamic Weather Context New Data Service Helps Bring Companies Closer to Achieving Data Integrity November 23, 2020 , the global leader in data integrity, today announced the availability of Precisely Dynamic Weather , a new offering that provides users with historical, real-time, and forecasted weather data at a hyper-local level for greater context in decision-making. The data service enhances Preciselys ability to provide customers with maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data, which are the essential elements of data integrity. Dynamic Weather delivers weather information at specific locations by revealing patterns related to rainfall, hail, wind, temperature and more for a variety of use cases across industry sectors. Visualize Data on a Map with the Precisely Dynamic Weather tool While most weather services allow users to visualize areas on a regional level, Dynamic Weather has the ability to drill down to the minute at a radius of just half a mile. This enables users to see how extreme weather conditions like hail, wind, rain, or snow impact specific properties or routes. Location-specific weather data enables a higher level of precision and planning, and ultimately cost-savings, for a number of industries, including: Dynamic Weather allows insurers to combat insurance fraud by determining whether adverse weather patterns actually impacted and destroyed specific properties. It also allows insurers to track trends in severe weather systems (such as tornadoes and hurricanes) to better set rates. Retail: Retailers can use Dynamic Weather to compare and correlate past weather events to sales to make informed inventory predictions ahead of similar scenarios. For example, if a retailer knows that a specific store location sold 30% more air-conditioning units during a heat wave, they can replenish supply accordingly ahead of a predicted heat wave. Logistics: Dynamic Weather gives businesses visibility on the weather status across the supply chain. Businesses can see how weather patterns may affect the departing location, route, or final destination of an item and ultimately the delivery of a product. This level of insight allows businesses to more accurately provide updates to customers on shipping delays. Previously, the unpredictable nature of weather left businesses hoping for the best in many scenarios, said Dan Edwards, Product Manager, Precisely. Dynamic Weather eliminates the guessing and allows retailers, insurers, and logistics specialists to make decisions based on accurate, trusted data. This has never been more important as climate change disrupts any sense of predictability. The precision of this tool gives users a level of confidence in their decision-making not previously available. Dynamic Weather applies Preciselys prowess in data integrity along with Barons critical weather intelligence to a solution that is relevant in countless scenarios. Ultimately, Dynamic Weather serves as a learning tool for users to better understand how weather impacts their business bottom line and allows them to make more confident decisions and operate better in the future. Visualize Data on a Map with the Precisely Dynamic Weather Tool To learn more about Dynamic Weather, visit: https://www.precisely.com/data-guide/products/dynamic-weather-data , a new offering that provides users with historical, real-time, and forecasted weather data at a hyper-local level for greater context in decision-making. The data service enhances Preciselys ability to provide customers with maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data, which are the essential elements of data integrity. Dynamic Weather delivers weather information at specific locations by revealing patterns related to rainfall, hail, wind, temperature and more for a variety of use cases across industry sectors. caption id="attachment_32918" align="alignnone" width="800" /caption While most weather services allow users to visualize areas on a regional level, Dynamic Weather has the ability to drill down to the minute at a radius of just half a mile. This enables users to see how extreme weather conditions like hail, wind, rain, or snow impact specific properties or routes. Location-specific weather data enables a higher level of precision and planning, and ultimately cost-savings, for a number of industries, including: Previously, the unpredictable nature of weather left businesses hoping for the best in many scenarios, said Dan Edwards, Product Manager, Precisely. Dynamic Weather eliminates the guessing and allows retailers, insurers, and logistics specialists to make decisions based on accurate, trusted data. This has never been more important as climate change disrupts any sense of predictability. The precision of this tool gives users a level of confidence in their decision-making not previously available. Dynamic Weather applies Preciselys prowess in data integrity along with Barons critical weather intelligence to a solution that is relevant in countless scenarios. Ultimately, Dynamic Weather serves as a learning tool for users to better understand how weather impacts their business bottom line and allows them to make more confident decisions and operate better in the future. caption id="attachment_32922" align="alignnone" width="800" Visualize Data on a Map with the Precisely Dynamic Weather Tool/caption To learn more about Dynamic Weather, visit: Precisely Delivers First End-to-End Data Integrity Suite for Precisely Delivers First End-to-End Data Integrity Suite for Confident Business Decisions The Precisely Data Integrity Suite is Industrys First to Enhance Accurate, Consistent Data with Context from Location Intelligence and Data Enrichment October 22, 2020 , the global leader in data integrity, today announced the Precisely Data Integrity Suite, a modular, interoperable suite that provides maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data for confident business decisions. The is the first suite to span the full spectrum of data integrity, delivering accuracy and consistency through best-in-class data quality and data integration capabilities, and context through market-leading location intelligence and data enrichment. Enhancing data with context helps surface hidden connections, creates meaningful relationships and ultimately makes data more valuable. With worldwide spending on digital transformation expected to reach $1.3 trillion this year , the Precisely Data Integrity Suite helps establish a foundation of trusted data to ensure these investments are successful. Lack of data integrity is a critical problem for businesses today. Eighty-four percent of CEOs do not trust the data on which they base decisions , 68 percent of organizations are hindered by siloed data , and nearly half (47 percent) of all new data records contain at least one critical error . Despite these realities, companies continue to make large, transformative bets in search of digital advantage. Ensuring data is complete, compliant, and accessible is no longer enough to keep pace in the digital economy. Today data integrity is the business imperative; businesses must maximize accuracy, consistency, and context in data to know they can trust their data-driven decisions, said Josh Rogers, CEO of Precisely. Decisions made on flawed data or gut instinct destroy value. With our unmatched, proven capabilities, the Precisely Data Integrity Suite enables our enterprise customers to achieve data integrity and move forward with confidence. Key features of the Precisely Data Integrity Suite: Differentiated capabilities across the full spectrum of data integrity Deep expertise in integration of even the most complex data, connecting todays infrastructure with tomorrows technology Powerful data profiling, smart matching, and entity resolution to ensure data quality with context graphs to reveal hidden relationships and patterns in data Hyper-accurate location insights for both operational and analytical use cases, delivered with unmatched scale and performance Expertly curated location, business, and consumer data with more than 9,000 attributes for data enrichment Modular and interoperable architecture Consumable in a modular fashion, the suite enables customers to choose from key capabilities to advance their business without a costly investment in a monolithic platform Easily and seamlessly deployable into existing environments, preserving investments in existing infrastructure Data product modules are easily leveraged from within software modules to seamlessly enhance existing data with additional context Built for innovation Built with the first principle of design once, deploy anywhere, the suite can be deployed on-premises, in the cloud, or in hybrid environments Deep partnerships and integration with leading data technology creates a total solution to business requirements for data integrity APIs enable clients and business partners to develop new solutions to data integrity challenges According to IDC, Data is a core element in the future of intelligence, but it can also be an inhibitor to success. The current state of data cleanliness and quality, intelligence about data, and lack of context are impacting the organizations ability to integrate and synthesize information, restricting the organizations ability to learn from and use the data, and limiting the scale at which insights can be delivered for better, faster, and more confident decision making. The Precisely Data Integrity Suite is the strategic result and culmination of a transformative year for the company, which began with the December 2019 acquisition of the software & data business of Pitney Bowes. This acquisition enhanced proven data integration and data quality capabilities with leading data enrichment and location intelligence to enable the company to deliver the first end-to-end data integrity suite. In May the company rebranded as Precisely to reflect its ability to power confident business decisions through maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data. Earlier this month, Precisely announced the sale of its Confirm business unit, acquired in the transaction from Pitney Bowes, to enable greater focus on, and accelerate development in, its core data integrity capabilities. With 12,000 enterprise customers, Precisely is now the global leader in data integrity. The market is screaming for data it can trust. Digital initiatives that once showed such promise cant get off the ground, with bad data stalling omnichannel experiences and impairing predictive modelling efforts. AI and Machine Learning have unlimited potential to advance human progress and quality of life, but if we train our models with flawed data, theyre getting a bad education, said Eric Yau, COO of Precisely. Achieving data integrity enables us to trust the data-driven decisions made by both people and machines because theyre made with maximum accuracy, consistency, and context. Learn more about Precisely Data Integrity Suite Precisely is the global leader in data integrity, providing accuracy and consistency in data for 12,000 customers in more than 100 countries, including 90 percent of the Fortune 100. Preciselys data integration, data quality, location intelligence, and data enrichment products power better business decisions to create better outcomes. Learn more at 1. IDC, New IDC Spending Guide Shows Continued Growth for Digital Transformation in 2020, Despite the Challenges Presented by the COVID-19 Pandemic , May 2020 2. Forbes, Poor-Quality Data Imposes Costs and Risks on Businesses, Says New Forbes Insights Report, https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbespr/2017/05/31/poor-quality-data-imposes-costs-and-risks-on-businesses-says-new-forbes-insights-report/#fb393f0452b1 3. Data Trends Survey 2019 4. Harvard Business Review, Only 3% of Companies Data Meets Basic Quality Standards, https://hbr.org/2017/09/only-3-of-companies-data-meets-basic-quality-standards 5. IDC Technology Spotlight, sponsored by Precisely, Putting Data Integrity into a Larger Context, doc #US46937620, October 2020 , the Precisely Data Integrity Suite helps establish a foundation of trusted data to ensure these investments are successful. Lack of data integrity is a critical problem for businesses today. Eighty-four percent of CEOs do not trust the data on which they base decisions . Despite these realities, companies continue to make large, transformative bets in search of digital advantage. Ensuring data is complete, compliant, and accessible is no longer enough to keep pace in the digital economy. Today data integrity is the business imperative; businesses must maximize accuracy, consistency, and context in data to know they can trust their data-driven decisions, said Josh Rogers, CEO of Precisely. Decisions made on flawed data or gut instinct destroy value. With our unmatched, proven capabilities, the Precisely Data Integrity Suite enables our enterprise customers to achieve data integrity and move forward with confidence. According to IDC, Data is a core element in the future of intelligence, but it can also be an inhibitor to success. The current state of data cleanliness and quality, intelligence about data, and lack of context are impacting the organization's ability to integrate and synthesize information, restricting the organization's ability to learn from and use the data, and limiting the scale at which insights can be delivered for better, faster, and more confident decision making. The Precisely Data Integrity Suite is the strategic result and culmination of a transformative year for the company, which began with the December 2019 acquisition of the software & data business of Pitney Bowes. This acquisition enhanced proven data integration and data quality capabilities with leading data enrichment and location intelligence to enable the company to deliver the first end-to-end data integrity suite. In May the company rebranded as Precisely to reflect its ability to power confident business decisions through maximum accuracy, consistency, and context in data. Earlier this month, Precisely announced the sale of its Confirm business unit, acquired in the transaction from Pitney Bowes, to enable greater focus on, and accelerate development in, its core data integrity capabilities. With 12,000 enterprise customers, Precisely is now the global leader in data integrity. The market is screaming for data it can trust. Digital initiatives that once showed such promise cant get off the ground, with bad data stalling omnichannel experiences and impairing predictive modelling efforts. AI and Machine Learning have unlimited potential to advance human progress and quality of life, but if we train our models with flawed data, theyre getting a bad education, said Eric Yau, COO of Precisely. Achieving data integrity enables us to trust the data-driven decisions made by both people and machines because theyre made with maximum accuracy, consistency, and context. sc name="primary_cta" url="https://www.precisely.com/product/data-integrity/precisely-data-integrity-suite" label="Learn more about Precisely Data Integrity Suite" , May 2020 2. Forbes, Poor-Quality Data Imposes Costs and Risks on Businesses, Says New Forbes Insights Report, 3. Data Trends Survey 2019 4. Harvard Business Review, Only 3% of Companies Data Meets Basic Quality Standards, 5. IDC Technology Spotlight, sponsored by Precisely, Putting Data Integrity into a Larger Context," doc #US46937620, October 2020 New Findings Uncover Significant Shift to Digital Technologies New Findings Uncover Significant Shift to Digital Technologies Among Customer Experience Leaders in the Age of Covid-19 Research from Corinium and Precisely Examines How Customer Experience Leaders Must Reinvent their Strategies to Meet Consumer Expectations October 20, 2020 Precisely, the global leader in data integrity, today released the findings of a commissioned with market intelligence firm Corinium that examines the significant changes that customer experience (CX) leaders must make as a result of COVID-19, and the acceleration of data-driven technologies shaping the future of CX in the post-pandemic world. The report finds almost 90 percent of organisations have updated their CX strategies in response to COVID-19, with a quarter of respondents indicating theyve totally rethought their CX approach. Additionally, nearly 80 percent of respondents said COVID-19 has increased the volume of digital customer interactions with their brands and that half of customers now expect even more seamless and integrated digital experiences. Other key findings from the report include: Migration to Digital Channels Marks a Permanent Shift in Customer Preferences The findings indicate digital touchpoints will replace many in-person ones moving forward. A full quarter of respondents expect to fully eliminate their brick and mortar presence, replacing physical locations with 100% digital alternatives, while an additional third of respondents said they expect to shutter some stores, branches or offices. The report confirms demand for omnichannel experience has reached a critical mass with 50 percent of respondents saying customers now expect more seamless, integrated experiences when interacting with brands. Most survey respondents agreed there are some aspects of the job that will always require a human touch. In fact, two thirds say customers still generally want to talk to a human when dealing with their businesses. In these cases, it is up to CX leaders to meet customers where they are, and to design journeys which allow customers to use their preferred channel and escalate to a human when needed. Its All About the Customer: Data Integrity and Integrated Multichannel CX Platforms Lead Investment Prioritization CX leaders are focusing on using data to deliver more seamless and personalised customer experiences in the wake of COVID-19. Sixty percent of business leaders indicated they plan to invest more in achieving data integrity through data integration and data enrichment technologies as a result of COVID-19. Forty-six percent of leaders are considering investments in integrated, multichannel CX platforms. Other high priority investments for business leaders include chatbots with live takeover functionality, chatbots that use Natural Language Processing (NLP), digital self-service platforms, and interactive and personalised video. The pandemic has accelerated the digital shift dramatically, increasing timelines from years to a matter of months. These data-driven investments are about engaging people in a personal and interactive way across different channels of engagement to ensure they get to the answers they need quickly. Its about making the complex simple, said Greg Van den Heuvel, EVP and GM, Precisely. Learn more about the report by downloading a copy The findings are based on a survey of more than 100 UK-based CX leaders and was conducted between August and September 2020. The participants work at companies with at least 10,000 employees and hold senior positions as department Heads, Directors, VPs, SVPs or C-level executives. About Corinium Intelligence Corinium Intelligence is a specialist market intelligence, advisory and events company. It delivers in-depth business insights, advice and tools to C-Suite executives. Through its global, connected network, Corinium puts its clients and customers in contact with leading C-Suite experts across the globe. Corinium publishes industry benchmarking research, editorial reports and thought leader analysis to inform the thinking of the CX, data, analytics and digital transformation executives in its network and keep the abreast of the most important emerging industry trends. Meanwhile, its portfolio of conferences, virtual events and digital roundtables provides a platform for some of the worlds most forward-thinking business leaders, as well as a forum for networking and knowledge exchange. Find out more here: https://www.coriniumintelligence.com/about-us Precisely is the global leader in data integrity, providing accuracy and consistency in data for 12,000 customers in more than 100 countries, including 90 percent of the Fortune 100. Preciselys data integration, data quality, location intelligence, data enrichment and customer engagement products power better business decisions to create better outcomes. Learn more at www.precisely.com. Preciselys Customer Engagement Solutions division offers a range of products that help businesses use data-driven insights to create seamless, personalized and omnichannel communications and connect with customers using the right channels, with the right messages, at the right time. Ned Tadic | commissioned with market intelligence firm Corinium that examines the significant changes that customer experience (CX) leaders must make as a result of COVID-19, and the acceleration of data-driven technologies shaping the future of CX in the post-pandemic world. The report finds almost 90 percent of organisations have updated their CX strategies in response to COVID-19, with a quarter of respondents indicating theyve totally rethought their CX approach. Additionally, nearly 80 percent of respondents said COVID-19 has increased the volume of digital customer interactions with their brands and that half of customers now expect even more seamless and integrated digital experiences. Other key findings from the report include: The findings indicate digital touchpoints will replace many in-person ones moving forward. A full quarter of respondents expect to fully eliminate their brick and mortar presence, replacing physical locations with 100% digital alternatives, while an additional third of respondents said they expect to shutter some stores, branches or offices. The report confirms demand for omnichannel experience has reached a critical mass with 50 percent of respondents saying customers now expect more seamless, integrated experiences when interacting with brands. Most survey respondents agreed there are some aspects of the job that will always require a human touch. In fact, two thirds say customers still generally want to talk to a human when dealing with their businesses. In these cases, it is up to CX leaders to meet customers where they are, and to design journeys which allow customers to use their preferred channel and escalate to a human when needed. CX leaders are focusing on using data to deliver more seamless and personalised customer experiences in the wake of COVID-19. Sixty percent of business leaders indicated they plan to invest more in achieving data integrity through data integration and data enrichment technologies as a result of COVID-19. Forty-six percent of leaders are considering investments in integrated, multichannel CX platforms. Other high priority investments for business leaders include chatbots with live takeover functionality, chatbots that use Natural Language Processing (NLP), digital self-service platforms, and interactive and personalised video. The pandemic has accelerated the digital shift dramatically, increasing timelines from years to a matter of months. These data-driven investments are about engaging people in a personal and interactive way across different channels of engagement to ensure they get to the answers they need quickly. Its about making the complex simple, said Greg Van den Heuvel, EVP and GM, Precisely. Learn more about the report by Corinium Intelligence is a specialist market intelligence, advisory and events company. It delivers in-depth business insights, advice and tools to C-Suite executives. Through its global, connected network, Corinium puts its clients and customers in contact with leading C-Suite experts across the globe. Corinium publishes industry benchmarking research, editorial reports and thought leader analysis to inform the thinking of the CX, data, analytics and digital transformation executives in its network and keep the abreast of the most important emerging industry trends. Meanwhile, its portfolio of conferences, virtual events and digital roundtables provides a platform for some of the worlds most forward-thinking business leaders, as well as a forum for networking and knowledge exchange. Find out more here: Precisely is the global leader in data integrity, providing accuracy and consistency in data for 12,000 customers in more than 100 countries, including 90 percent of the Fortune 100. Preciselys data integration, data quality, location intelligence, data enrichment and customer engagement products power better business decisions to create better outcomes. Learn more at www.precisely.com. Preciselys Customer Engagement Solutions division offers a range of products that help businesses use data-driven insights to create seamless, personalized and omnichannel communications and connect with customers using the right channels, with the right messages, at the right time. Press and Media Contact Ned Tadic | Precisely Announces Datasets Available Through Snowflake Data Marketplace Trusted Datasets from Precisely Power Confident Business Decisions with Snowflake October 1, 2020 Precisely, the global leader in data integrity, today announced the availability of its datasets on Snowflake Data Marketplace, where organizations can find, share, and list data to achieve crucial business insights. Snowflake users, such as data scientists, business intelligence analysts, and analytics professionals can leverage Precisely data within Snowflake Data Marketplace to enrich their own data with Preciselys unique location and consumer insights, for additional context to drive confident business decision-making. The datasets now available on Snowflake Data Marketplace include some of Preciselys most sought-after data products, including: , a pre-geocoded nationwide list of U.S. addresses with the most accurate geographic coordinates for each location. , a multi-sourced point dataset providing accurate location and company information for businesses, leisure, and geographic features. ZIP Plus 4s , which correlates over 60 million USPS ZIP Plus 4s to U.S. census block data. The tools within these datasets help to provide consistent and correct location information for conducting analysis with confidence while avoiding costly mistakes. Snowflake users can browse the Precisely datasets on Snowflake Data Marketplace and can contact Precisely if they would like to sample the data. If users decide to purchase data, it is delivered to them via Snowflakes secure platform for easy integration into their analytics processes. Better data enables better decisions. Putting high-quality data into the hands of more and more users via Snowflake enables organizations to realize the return from their data investments. We are already working on how we will add more value to Snowflake users through our datasets, said Eric Yau, COO at Precisely. Theres a massive market for managing and analyzing data its no secret Snowflake is a leader in this marketspace. Providing Precisely datasets via Snowflake helps ensure trusted data is available for analysis in the cloud. Location data provides vital information for analytics across industries. The addition of Preciselys trusted and unique geospatial datasets to Snowflake Data Marketplace can enable users to unlock greater insights for better business decision-making, said Vince Trotta, VP of Snowflake Data Marketplace at Snowflake. Earlier this summer, Precisely that the new version of Precisely Connect included expanded options for integrating all enterprise data for analysis into systems including Snowflakes. To learn more about the data sets, visit the where organizations can find, share, and list data to achieve crucial business insights. Snowflake users, such as data scientists, business intelligence analysts, and analytics professionals can leverage Precisely data within Snowflake Data Marketplace to enrich their own data with Preciselys unique location and consumer insights, for additional context to drive confident business decision-making. The datasets now available on Snowflake Data Marketplace include some of Preciselys most sought-after data products, including: World Points of Interest - Premium The tools within these datasets help to provide consistent and correct location information for conducting analysis with confidence while avoiding costly mistakes. Snowflake users can browse the Precisely datasets on Snowflake Data Marketplace and can contact Precisely if they would like to sample the data. If users decide to purchase data, it is delivered to them via Snowflakes secure platform for easy integration into their analytics processes. Better data enables better decisions. Putting high-quality data into the hands of more and more users via Snowflake enables organizations to realize the return from their data investments. We are already working on how we will add more value to Snowflake users through our datasets, said Eric Yau, COO at Precisely. Theres a massive market for managing and analyzing data its no secret Snowflake is a leader in this marketspace. Providing Precisely datasets via Snowflake helps ensure trusted data is available for analysis in the cloud. Location data provides vital information for analytics across industries. The addition of Preciselys trusted and unique geospatial datasets to Snowflake Data Marketplace can enable users to unlock greater insights for better business decision-making, said Vince Trotta, VP of Snowflake Data Marketplace at Snowflake. Earlier this summer, Precisely that the new version of Precisely Connect included expanded options for integrating all enterprise data for analysis into systems including Snowflakes. To learn more about the data sets, visit the Precisely Delivers Trusted Data to Databricks, Microsoft Azure Precisely Delivers Trusted Data to Databricks, Microsoft Azure Synapse and Snowflake Latest Release of Precisely Connect Enhances Secure Integration of Data for Analysis in the Cloud July 23, 2020 , the global leader in data integrity, today announced the latest release of Precisely Connect, helping power confident business decisions with trusted data in next-generation cloud and data platforms. The new version of Connect includes enhanced security and expanded options for integrating all enterprise data for analysis into Databricks, Microsoft Azure Synapse, and Snowflake. Businesses are rapidly adopting cloud data warehouses to support data analytics projects with maximum scalability and without the cost of managing on-premises infrastructure, said Fernanda Tavares, senior vice president of R&D for data integration at Precisely. Precisely Connect enables companies to seamlessly and securely integrate data from all enterprise data sources, including traditional DBMS, mainframe, and IBM i, into Azure Synapse, Databricks, and Snowflake for confident decisions based on data they can trust. Precisely Connect helps deliver trusted data by simplifying integration with a one solution approach to integrate, prepare, load, cleanse, transform and stream data across hybrid-cloud, and cloud platforms; expanding data access to include all enterprise data, from mainframe and IBM i to the cloud, while keeping secure integrations; replicating in real-time by streaming changes to data for instant use in downstream applications, data lakes and cloud data warehouses; and helping future-proof an organization by quickly and easily adding new sources and targets, and deploying applications in new environments without redevelopment. The latest version of Precisely Connect includes: Enhanced secure data delivery Moving data from existing infrastructure to cloud data warehouses requires sensitive data be desensitized before landing in public cloud environments. The latest version of Connect expands its secure data delivery through an integration to Protegrity, which protects and masks sensitive data in-flight in standalone servers or distributed environments. An integration with CyberArk stores and retrieves passwords from an enterprise vault to improve password protection and management. Expanded integration with leading cloud platforms The data integrated into a cloud data warehouse must be readable and usable in that environment to ensure it is actionable for analytics. The latest version of Connect extends its connectivity to cloud data warehouses, which includes Amazon Redshift, to also include Microsoft Azure Synapse with automatic metadata mapping, high performance parallel loads, delivering trusted data in hybrid cloud and multi-cloud environments. helping power confident business decisions with trusted data in next-generation cloud and data platforms. The new version of Connect includes enhanced security and expanded options for integrating all enterprise data for analysis into Databricks, Microsoft Azure Synapse, and Snowflake. Businesses are rapidly adopting cloud data warehouses to support data analytics projects with maximum scalability and without the cost of managing on-premises infrastructure, said Fernanda Tavares, senior vice president of R&D for data integration at Precisely. Precisely Connect enables companies to seamlessly and securely integrate data from all enterprise data sources, including traditional DBMS, mainframe, and IBM i, into Azure Synapse, Databricks, and Snowflake for confident decisions based on data they can trust. Precisely Connect helps deliver trusted data by simplifying integration with a one solution approach to integrate, prepare, load, cleanse, transform and stream data across hybrid-cloud, and cloud platforms; expanding data access to include all enterprise data, from mainframe and IBM i to the cloud, while keeping secure integrations; replicating in real-time by streaming changes to data for instant use in downstream applications, data lakes and cloud data warehouses; and helping future-proof an organization by quickly and easily adding new sources and targets, and deploying applications in new environments without redevelopment.